powerapps-docs/developer/component-framework/issues-and-workarounds.md, before:

---
title: Common issues and workarounds (Power Apps Component Framework) | Microsoft Docs
description: Provides information on know issues and workarounds some come across while working with Power Apps component framework and CLI
keywords:
author: Nkrb
ms.author: nabuthuk
manager: kvivek
ms.date: 06/08/2021
ms.service: "powerapps"
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
---

# Common issues and workarounds

Here are some common issues that you might come across while using the Power Apps component framework and Microsoft Power Platform CLI.

[!INCLUDE[cc-terminology](../data-platform/includes/cc-terminology.md)]

## Component changes are not reflected after the updated solution import?

Update the component version (minor or patch) in the component manifest file (for example, 1.0.0 to 1.0.1). Every update in the component needs a component version bump to be reflected on the Microsoft Dataverse server.

```XML
 <control namespace="SampleNamespace" constructor="TSLinearInputControl" 
   version="1.0.1" 
    display-name-key="TSLinearInputControl_Display_Key" description-key="TSLinearInputControl_Desc_Key" control-type="standard">
```

## Msbuild error MSB4036

- The name of the task in the project file is same as the name of the task class.
- The task class is public and implements the Microsoft.Build.Framework.ITask interface.
- The task is correctly declared with *\<UsingTask>* in the project file or in the *.tasks files located in the path directory.

**Workaround**:

- Open Visual Studio Installer.
- For Visual Studio 2017 or higher, select **Modify**.
- Select **Individual Components**.
- Under Code Tools, check **NuGet targets & Build Tasks**.

> [!NOTE]
> We will be constantly adding common issues and workarounds as we come across during the development process. If you encounter an issue and have a workaround and you think that is helpful, raise the issue [here](https://powerusers.microsoft.com/t5/Power-Apps-Component-Framework/bd-p/pa_component_framework) or raise a pull request so that we can review and add it to the list.

## Issues while updating existing code components

- If you get a 1ES notification asking how pcf-scripts are being used, note that these scripts are only used to build the code components but they are not bundled or used by the resulting component.
- If you have created a code component using the CLI version 0.1.817.1 or earlier and want to ensure that the latest build and debug modules are being used, make the updates to the `package.json` file as shown below:
   
   ```JSON
   "dependencies": { "@types/node": "^10.12.18", "@types/powerapps-component-framework": "1.1.0"}, "devDependencies": { "pcf-scripts": "~0", "pcf-start": "~0" } 
   ```

## Error: Failed to retrieve information about Microsoft.PowerApps.MSBuild.Pcf from remote source <Feed Url> when the build fails for authorization issues. 

   **Workaround**

   - Open the `NuGet.Config` file from **%APPDATA%\NuGet**. The feed from which the user is getting the error should be present in this file. 
   - Remove the feed from the `NuGet.Config file` or generate a PAT token and add it to the` Nuget.Config file`. For example:

     ```XML
     <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>  
     <configuration>  
     <packageSources>  
         <add key="CRMSharedFeed" value="https://dynamicscrm.pkgs.visualstudio.com/_packaging/CRMSharedFeed/nuget/v3/index.json" />  
      </packageSources>  
      <packageSourceCredentials>  
      <CRMSharedFeed>  
      <add key="Username" value="anything" />  
      <add key="Password" value="User PAT" />  
        </CRMSharedFeed>  
        </packageSourceCredentials>  
       </configuration>
     ```

## Web resource size is too large

Error  **Import Solution Failed: Web resource content size is too big**.

**Workaround**

- Build  the `.pcfproj` as release configuration, which sets the web pack to production mode using the command 
  ```CLI
  msbuild /property:configuration=Release
  ```
- Run the msbuild command with an extra property as shown below: 
  ```CLI
  msbuild /p:PcfBuildMode=production
  ```
- Edit the `.pcfproj` to always build the web pack in production mode by setting the property `PcfBuildMode` to production:
  ```XML
  <PropertyGroup>
    <Name>TS_ReactStandardControl</Name>
    <ProjectGuid>0df84c56-2f55-4a80-ac9f-85b7a14bf378</ProjectGuid>
    <OutputPath>$(MSBuildThisFileDirectory)out\controls</OutputPath>
    <PcfBuildMode>production</PcfBuildMode>
  </PropertyGroup>
  ```

## When running Power Apps checker with the solution built using CLI tooling in default configuration

**Error: Do not use the eval function or its functional equivalents**

This warning is by design since the default `msbuild` configuration is `Configuration=Debug`. This in turn instructs web pack (used to bundle the code component) to package in development mode, which emits `eval()`. 

**Workaround**

Re build the solution file using  the following either of the commands and reimport the solution into Dataverse.

```CLI
msbuild/property:configuration:Release
```

```CLI
npm run build -- --buildMode production
```

<!--## Power Apps component framework Datasets getValue by property alias doesn't work

Power Apps component framework dataset API's getValue function only searches record by the dataset column name and not the property alias set in the manifest. Attempting to get value by property alias will return an empty value.

**Workaround**

Use the dataset column name (component can get the dataset column name by searching the column array using the alias). 

   ***Expected Behavior*** 

   ```TypeScript
   long  = dataSet.records[currentRecordId].getValue("Longitude") //based on property set in manifest"-122.3514661"
   ```

   ***Current Workaround***

   ```TypeScript
   lat = dataSet.records[currentRecordId].getValue("Address_x0020_1_x003a__x0020_Latitude")//based on the dataset column name
   ```

## Power Apps component framework Datasets SharePoint issue

Power Apps component framework dataset component currently does not properly show the records from SharePoint. While the network request will succeed with the correct data records returned, the deserialization fails and an empty dataset is returned.

**Workaround**

No workaround as of now. We are working on pushing a fix to our deployment trains.-->



[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Added canvas app dataset paging issue

powerapps-docs/developer/component-framework/issues-and-workarounds.md, after:

---
title: Common issues and workarounds (Power Apps Component Framework) | Microsoft Docs
description: Provides information on know issues and workarounds some come across while working with Power Apps component framework and CLI
keywords:
author: Nkrb
ms.author: nabuthuk
manager: kvivek
ms.date: 06/08/2021
ms.service: "powerapps"
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
---

# Common issues and workarounds

Here are some common issues that you might come across while using the Power Apps component framework and Microsoft Power Platform CLI.

[!INCLUDE[cc-terminology](../data-platform/includes/cc-terminology.md)]

## Component changes are not reflected after the updated solution import?

Update the component version (minor or patch) in the component manifest file (for example, 1.0.0 to 1.0.1). Every update in the component needs a component version bump to be reflected on the Microsoft Dataverse server.

```XML
 <control namespace="SampleNamespace" constructor="TSLinearInputControl" 
   version="1.0.1" 
    display-name-key="TSLinearInputControl_Display_Key" description-key="TSLinearInputControl_Desc_Key" control-type="standard">
```

## Msbuild error MSB4036

- The name of the task in the project file is same as the name of the task class.
- The task class is public and implements the Microsoft.Build.Framework.ITask interface.
- The task is correctly declared with *\<UsingTask>* in the project file or in the *.tasks files located in the path directory.

**Workaround**:

- Open Visual Studio Installer.
- For Visual Studio 2017 or higher, select **Modify**.
- Select **Individual Components**.
- Under Code Tools, check **NuGet targets & Build Tasks**.

> [!NOTE]
> We will be constantly adding common issues and workarounds as we come across during the development process. If you encounter an issue and have a workaround and you think that is helpful, raise the issue [here](https://powerusers.microsoft.com/t5/Power-Apps-Component-Framework/bd-p/pa_component_framework) or raise a pull request so that we can review and add it to the list.

## Issues while updating existing code components

- If you get a 1ES notification asking how pcf-scripts are being used, note that these scripts are only used to build the code components but they are not bundled or used by the resulting component.
- If you have created a code component using the CLI version 0.1.817.1 or earlier and want to ensure that the latest build and debug modules are being used, make the updates to the `package.json` file as shown below:
   
   ```JSON
   "dependencies": { "@types/node": "^10.12.18", "@types/powerapps-component-framework": "1.1.0"}, "devDependencies": { "pcf-scripts": "~0", "pcf-start": "~0" } 
   ```

## Error: Failed to retrieve information about Microsoft.PowerApps.MSBuild.Pcf from remote source <Feed Url> when the build fails for authorization issues. 

   **Workaround**

   - Open the `NuGet.Config` file from **%APPDATA%\NuGet**. The feed from which the user is getting the error should be present in this file. 
   - Remove the feed from the `NuGet.Config file` or generate a PAT token and add it to the` Nuget.Config file`. For example:

     ```XML
     <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>  
     <configuration>  
     <packageSources>  
         <add key="CRMSharedFeed" value="https://dynamicscrm.pkgs.visualstudio.com/_packaging/CRMSharedFeed/nuget/v3/index.json" />  
      </packageSources>  
      <packageSourceCredentials>  
      <CRMSharedFeed>  
      <add key="Username" value="anything" />  
      <add key="Password" value="User PAT" />  
        </CRMSharedFeed>  
        </packageSourceCredentials>  
       </configuration>
     ```

## Web resource size is too large

Error  **Import Solution Failed: Web resource content size is too big**.

**Workaround**

- Build  the `.pcfproj` as release configuration, which sets the web pack to production mode using the command 
  ```CLI
  msbuild /property:configuration=Release
  ```
- Run the msbuild command with an extra property as shown below: 
  ```CLI
  msbuild /p:PcfBuildMode=production
  ```
- Edit the `.pcfproj` to always build the web pack in production mode by setting the property `PcfBuildMode` to production:
  ```XML
  <PropertyGroup>
    <Name>TS_ReactStandardControl</Name>
    <ProjectGuid>0df84c56-2f55-4a80-ac9f-85b7a14bf378</ProjectGuid>
    <OutputPath>$(MSBuildThisFileDirectory)out\controls</OutputPath>
    <PcfBuildMode>production</PcfBuildMode>
  </PropertyGroup>
  ```

## When running Power Apps checker with the solution built using CLI tooling in default configuration

**Error: Do not use the eval function or its functional equivalents**

This warning is by design since the default `msbuild` configuration is `Configuration=Debug`. This in turn instructs web pack (used to bundle the code component) to package in development mode, which emits `eval()`. 

**Workaround**

Re build the solution file using  the following either of the commands and reimport the solution into Dataverse.

```CLI
msbuild/property:configuration:Release
```

```CLI
npm run build -- --buildMode production
```

<!--## Power Apps component framework Datasets getValue by property alias doesn't work

Power Apps component framework dataset API's getValue function only searches record by the dataset column name and not the property alias set in the manifest. Attempting to get value by property alias will return an empty value.

**Workaround**

Use the dataset column name (component can get the dataset column name by searching the column array using the alias). 

   ***Expected Behavior*** 

   ```TypeScript
   long  = dataSet.records[currentRecordId].getValue("Longitude") //based on property set in manifest"-122.3514661"
   ```

   ***Current Workaround***

   ```TypeScript
   lat = dataSet.records[currentRecordId].getValue("Address_x0020_1_x003a__x0020_Latitude")//based on the dataset column name
   ```

## Power Apps component framework Datasets SharePoint issue

Power Apps component framework dataset component currently does not properly show the records from SharePoint. While the network request will succeed with the correct data records returned, the deserialization fails and an empty dataset is returned.

**Workaround**

No workaround as of now. We are working on pushing a fix to our deployment trains.-->

## Canvas dataset paging is not reset when filter applied
 
Currently there is an issue with canvas app datasets bound to code components. When the dataset is filtered externally to the code component using PowerFX, the page should be reset to the first page, and the hasPreviousPage should be set to false. This is the functionality inside model-driven apps. This does not happen for canvas apps and so the code components cannot reset the paging and the page numbers can get out of sync. 
 
**Workaround**

No workaround as of now. A fix for this issue is being deployed.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
