---
title: Embed a model-driven app as tab app | Microsoft Docs
description: ""
author: mattp123
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.component: pa-user
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 11/16/2020
ms.author: matp
ms.custom: ""
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.assetid: 
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---

# Embed a model-driven app as tab app in Teams

Tenant admins can select Microsoft Teams Integration to enable embedding model-driven apps into Teams. After making this selection, users can use model-driven apps in Teams without using customer engagement apps (Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, Dynamics 365 Field Service, Dynamics 365 Marketing, and Dynamics 365 Project Service Automation).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Model-driven apps can execute code that may not be generated by Microsoft. Make sure that the code for the apps in this environment are from a trusted source. 

## Embed a model-driven app as a tab app

You can customize the Teams experience by adding Power Apps model-driven apps to your channels in Teams using the **PowerApps** tab.

### Enable your model-driven app for Teams 

Before pinning your model-driven app into Teams, you first need to enable model-driven apps in Teams for your environment. To do so, [ask your tenant admin to enable the Microsoft Teams Integration in the Power Platform admin center](/power-platform/admin/about-teams-environment).

### Pin your model-driven app into Teams 

After enabling your apps to be pinned inside of Teams, you can pin your model-driven app using the Power Apps app in Teams.

1. In Microsoft Teams, select a team, and a channel under that team. In this example, it's the **General** channel under the **Business Development** team.

   :::image type="content" source="media/teams-general-channel.png" alt-text="Select a channel, such as the General channel.":::

1. Select **+** to add a tab.

   :::image type="content" source="media/teams-add-a-tab.png" alt-text="Add a tab":::

1. In the **Add a tab** dialog box, choose **PowerApps**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/teams-powerapps-tab.png" alt-text="Add the PowerApps tab":::

1. Select **Model-driven apps** in the dropdown list.

  :::image type="content" source="media/teams-select-model-driven.png" alt-text="Select Model-driven apps":::

1. Search for and select the model-driven app you would like to pin.

1. Select **Save**.
The app is now available to use in the channel.