powerapps-docs/whats-new.md, before:

---
title: What's new in Power Apps | Microsoft Docs
description: Provides information about the Power Apps weekly release and release notes
author: KumarVivek
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: 
ms.reviewer: 
ms.date: 06/03/2021
ms.author: kvivek
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
  - admin
  - user
  - developer
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
---

# What's new in Power Apps?

This topic provides resources where you can learn about the new features that have recently released, new features that will be releasing over the next few months, and known limitations.

## Weekly releases

For information about the new features, fixes, and improvements released in the past few weeks, see [Released versions for Microsoft Power Apps](/business-applications-release-notes/powerplatform/released-versions/powerapps).

To know more about how to browse information in the weekly release notes, read this [blog post](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/stay-tuned-with-the-latest-features-and-fixes-through-powerapps-weekly-release-notes/).

> [!NOTE]
> Releases are rolled out over several days. New or updated functionality might not appear immediately.

## Release plan

For information about new features releasing over the next few months that you can use for planning, see [2021 release wave 1 plan](/power-platform-release-plan/2021wave1/power-apps/planned-features).

## Known limitations

For information about known limitations, see [Common issues and resolutions](common-issues-and-resolutions.md).

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Copy edit to Power Apps what's new

powerapps-docs/whats-new.md, after:

---
title: What's new in Power Apps | Microsoft Docs
description: Find information about the new features that have been recently released, features that will be releasing in the next few months, and known limitations.
author: KumarVivek
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: 
ms.reviewer: 
ms.date: 06/03/2021
ms.author: kvivek
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
  - admin
  - user
  - developer
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
---

# What's new in Power Apps?

This topic provides resources for you to learn about the new features that have been recently released, features that will be releasing over the next few months, and known limitations and resolutions.

## Weekly releases

For information about the new features, fixes, and improvements released in the past few weeks, see [Released versions for Microsoft Power Apps](/business-applications-release-notes/powerplatform/released-versions/powerapps).

To learn more about how to browse information in the weekly release notes, read this [blog post](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/stay-tuned-with-the-latest-features-and-fixes-through-powerapps-weekly-release-notes/).

> [!NOTE]
> Releases are rolled out over several days. New or updated functionality might not appear immediately.

## Release plan

For information about new features being released over the next few months that you can use for planning, see the [2021 release wave 1 plan](/power-platform-release-plan/2021wave1/power-apps/planned-features).

## Known limitations

For information about known limitations, see [Common issues and resolutions](common-issues-and-resolutions.md).

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]
