---
title: Understand your app's functionality through code view (preview)
description: Understanding app functionality through code view for canvas apps.
author: marcelbf

ms.custom: canvas
ms.collection: get-started
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.reviewer: mkaur
ms.date: 5/14/2024
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: marcelbf
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
  - developer
---
# Understand app functionality through code view (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

Use code view to see your app's underlying code to better understand the app's functionality. Each control on the screen has a code representation that uses a format that is a subset of YAML and an improvement from the [YAML formula grammar](/power-platform/power-fx/yaml-formula-grammar).

With code view you can:

- See a code representation of each control on your screen.
- Copy a control as code and share outside of Power Apps Studio.
- Copy an paste a control as code and create new control based on the copied code.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - Format is subjected to change. We don’t guarantee compatibility with the final version.
> - The current code format isn't suitable to source control during the preview period.

## Prerequisites 

 The Power Fx formula bar must be turned on to view the code for a control.

The formula bar is **ON** by default for new apps. For existing apps, follow these steps to turn on the Power Fx formula bar:
 - Open our app in Power Apps Studio, select **Settings** > **Upcoming features** > **Preview** > set the **Power Fx formula bar** toggle to **ON**.


## View, copy, and paste code

The **View code** feature shows the code for the selected control and all underlying controls. You can also use the shortcut **Ctrl + F** to find a specific string in the code.

Follow these steps to view, copy, and paste the code for a control:

1. Open your app for [editing](edit-app.md) in Power Apps Studio.
1. **Right-click** on the control in the **Tree view** or on the screen or and then select, **View code (preview)**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/code-view/view-code.png" alt-text="View code for a control":::

1. Select **Copy code** and then paste the copied code into any window outside of your browser.

1. To generate a new control from the copied code, right-click on the control where you want to create a new control and the select, **Paste code (preview)**. 

    :::image type="content" source="media/code-view/paste-code.png" alt-text="Paste code ":::


     You must use the YAML format that's generated by Power Apps Studio. The code also goes through validation check before it's created.

## Know limitations

* You can't copy and paste and there’s no code view for the **App Object**.
* You can’t edit the code in the code view.
* You can only copy controls that are on a screen. Copying a screen isn't supported.
* When pasting code, the new control will be positioned at coordinates X=40, Y=40. In the future the X and Y properties will be respected.

This article provides an overview of working with formulas. For more detailed information about functions, operators, and other building blocks, see [Formula reference](formula-reference.md).

### See also

[YAML format](/power-platform/power-fx/yaml-formula-grammar)
[Formula bar](formula-bar-find-replace.md)
[Use Find and Replace capability in the formula bar](formula-bar-find-replace.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
