---
title: Overview of Copilot answer control for canvas apps
description: Use the Copilot answer control for canvas app.
author: mduelae
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: canvas
ms.collection: 
    - bap-ai-copilot
    - get started
ms.reviewer: mkaur
ms.date: 5/27/2025
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: arijitba
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
contributors:
  - mduelae
---

#  Use Copilot answer control for canvas apps (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

Makers can use the Copilot answer control to set predefined questions that end users can use to get AI-generated information with a single click. The control is powered by Microsoft Copilot and is designed for mobile users to provide them with immediate answers to frequently asked questions.

:::image type="content" source="media/answer-control/answer-control-shown-on-mobile.png" alt-text="Answers shown on mobile":::

## Enable Copilot answer control for your environment

To use the Copilot answer control in a canvas app, an admin must first turn on the feature, **Allow canvas editors to insert the Copilot answer component, which allows users to receive an AI-powered answer to a predefined data query** in their environment. 

This setting can be found in the [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com) by going to **Environments** > [select an environment] > **Settings** > **Product** > **Features**. For more information, see [Manage feature settings](/power-platform/admin/settings-features#copilot-preview).

:::image type="content" source="media/answer-control/answer-control-enable-by-admin.jpg" alt-text="Turn on Copilot answer control on Power Platform admin center":::

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> - This is a preview feature.
> - Preview features aren't meant for production use and might have restricted functionality. These features are subject to [supplemental terms of use](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2216214), and are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.
> - Starting February 2, 2026, this feature will be removed. Makers will no longer be able to add the Copilot answer control to new Canvas apps. Existing apps that already use this control will continue to function for now, but will be fully deprecated in the future.

## Add Copilot answer control

With your [canvas app open for editing](edit-app.md) in Power Apps Studio:

1. On the command bar, select **Insert** and then select **Copilot answer (preview)**
    
1. When the **Copilot answer (preview)** control is added to the canvas app, select a data source from the pane. Copilot only supports Dataverse tables.

   :::image type="content" source="media/answer-control/answer-control-select-data-type.png" alt-text="Select data source":::

1. On the control properties pane, select the **Properties** tab.

1. In the properties, enter the **Title**, **Questions for Copilot**, and **Show answer** for the question. You can also edit other control properties as needed.

   :::image type="content" source="media/answer-control/answer-control-properties.png" alt-text="Answer control properties":::

1. When you're done, [save and publish](save-publish-app.md) your app.

## Use Copilot answer control

End users can regenerate responses and provide feedback on the quality of responses.

Follow these steps to see answers generated by the Copilot answer control:

1. Open a canvas app on Power Apps mobile and navigate to the Copilot answer control in your app.
1. On the Copilot answer control select, **Send**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/answer-control/answer-control-send.png" alt-text="Use Copilot answer control on mobile":::



