powerapps-docs/maker/canvas-apps/mixed-reality-take-upload-photos.md, before:

---
title: Take real-world screenshots of objects in mixed reality
description: Use your app to take photos of 3D objects that are overlaid in the real world.
author: iaanw
manager: shellyha
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: canvas
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.date: 3/25/2021
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: iawilt
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
contributors:
  - iaanw
---



# Take and upload mixed-reality photos in Power Apps


You can add a control to take photos of the mixed-reality (MR) experience in your apps that use the following components:
- [View in MR](mixed-reality-component-view-mr.md)
- [View shape in MR](mixed-reality-component-view-shape.md)
- [Measure in MR](mixed-reality-component-measure-distance.md)


This topic will guide you through creating a test app that you can use to take and upload photos from within an MR session, including:

- Inserting a **View in 3D** component with the default sample 3D object included so you can see and manipulate a 3D object.
- Connecting the **View in 3D** component to a **View in MR** component button so you can view the 3D object in MR.
- Testing the components using an MR-capable device.
- Inserting a gallery to view recorded photos taken from the **View in MR** component on the MR-capable device.
- Uploading photos to OneDrive with a Power Automate flow.

## Prerequisites

- Create a blank canvas app ready for editing.
  - Go to the [Power Apps Studio](https://create.powerapps.com) and, under the **Start with a blank canvas or a template** section, select **Phone layout** on the **Blank app** tile.  
- Have a OneDrive folder called **MRPhotos** that you can store your photos in when testing the upload feature.



> [!TIP]
> The MR components work best in well-lit environments with flat-textured surfaces. When establishing tracking, point the device at the surface you would like to track and slowly pan the device from right to left in broad arm motions. If tracking fails, exit and enter the MR view to reset the tracking and try again.  
>
> LIDAR-enabled devices will also result in better tracking.

## Insert and connect a 3D object to the View in MR component and test your app

With an app open for editing in [Power Apps Studio](https://create.powerapps.com), you can insert and connect the **View in 3D** and **View in MR** components. Using these components lets you overlay a sample 3D object (which looks like a box's frame) into the real world using your device's camera.

1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Expand **Media**.
3. Select the component **View in 3D** to place it in the center of the app screen, or drag it to position it anywhere on the screen.  

    A default shape is included in the component. You can change this shape to another by altering the **Source** property. For more information, see [how to define where the 3D content is stored](mixed-reality-component-view-3d-store.md). In this example, we'll use the URL *https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-assets/master/robot_arm.glb*.
1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Expand **Mixed reality**.
3. Select the component **View in MR** to place it in the app screen, or drag it to position it anywhere on the screen.


    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented-view-mr/augmented-view-mr.png" alt-text="Insert the View in MR component into the app.":::

1. In the **Properties** panel for the **View in MR** component, on the **Advanced** tab, select the **Source** field and enter `ViewIn3D1.Source` to set the source object as the 3D object you inserted with the **View in 3D** component.  

    You can also use the expression editor at the top of the window: type `ViewIn3D1.Source`.

   ![Screenshot showing the Source property with ViewIn3D1.Source in the expression editor.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/add-3d-model-source.png "Screenshot showing the Source property with ViewIn3D1.Source in the expression editor")


9. [Save (and, if necessary, publish) the app](save-publish-app.md) and [load it on your mobile device](/powerapps/maker/canvas-apps/../mobile/run-powerapps-on-mobile) to test that you can view the 3D object in MR by selecting the **View in MR** button.


## Insert a gallery to view photos taken in the app

You can now insert a gallery control into your app. The gallery control lets users of the app take and view photos from within the app.

Photos you take by selecting the camera icon in the MR view on the app will be loaded into the gallery component on the app. If you exit the MR view to see the gallery, re-entering the MR view and taking more photos will overwrite the photos.

1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Select the **Vertical gallery** control to place it in the center of the app screen, or drag it to position it anywhere on the screen.
3. In the **Properties** panel for the gallery control, on the **Advanced** tab, set the **Items** property to equal `ViewInMR1.Photos`.  
    
    You can also use the expression editor at the top of the window.
    
    ![Screenshot showing the Items property with ViewInMR1.Photos.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/add-gallery-source.png "Screenshot showing the Items property with ViewInMR1.Photos")


    > [!TIP]
    > You can load all photos taken across multiple MR components by adding `Collect(AllPhotos,ViewInMR1.Photos)` to the **OnChange** property of each MR component.

You can insert a "pop-up" overlay of the selected image so users of the app can see the photo full size.

1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Expand **Media** and select the **Image** control to place it in the app screen. Drag and position it so it covers the entire screen (or however much of the screen you want the image to cover when selected from the gallery).

    ![Drag the image control to fill the screen.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/insert-pop-up.png "Drag the image control to fill the screen")

3. Go to the **Advanced** tab of the **Properties** pane:  
    1. Change the **OnSelect** property to `UpdateContext({vVisibleImageZoom:false})`.
    2. Change the **Image** property to `Gallery1.Selected.Image1` (or whatever the first image in the gallery control is labeled).
    3. Change the **Visible** property to `vVisibleImageZoom`.
4. Select the first image in the gallery control.
5. Go to the **Advanced** tab of the **Properties** pane and change the **OnSelect** property to `UpdateContext({vVisibleImageZoom:true})`.

    ![With the image thumbnail in the gallery selected, change the OnSelect property.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/set-gallery-onselect.png "With the image thumbnail in the gallery selected, change the OnSelect property")

6. [Save and publish the app](save-publish-app.md) and [load it on your mobile device](/powerapps/maker/canvas-apps/../mobile/run-powerapps-on-mobile).
7. Tap the **View in MR** button to open MR view. 
8. Tap the screenshot icon at the bottom of the screen, then tap the back arrow at the top of the screen.
9. You should see the screenshot now showing underneath the **View in MR** button. Tap the screenshot's thumbnail, and a large version of the screenshot will appear. Tap anywhere on the image to hide it.




## Upload photos to OneDrive with a Power Automate flow


1. Go to the **Action** tab and select **Power Automate**, followed by **Create a new flow**. This option opens Power Automate in a new browser tab. You might need to sign in at the top.

    ![Select Action, then select Power Automate.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/open-automate.png "Select Action, then select Power Automate")
2. Choose the template for a **PowerApps button**.

    ![Select the PowerApps button template.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/create-power-apps-button.png "Select the PowerApps button template")
3. To make it easier to find later, rename the flow by selecting **PowerApps button** at the top and entering a new name.

    ![Change the name on the top of the screen.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/rename-flow.png "Change the name on the top of the screen")

4. Select **+ New step**. Search for **OneDrive create file** and select the **Create file** action that appears in the results.

    ![Screenshot highlighting the Create file action.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/create-onedrive.png "Screenshot highlighting the Create file action")

    Make sure you are signed in to the correct OneDrive account where you want to upload your photos.

5. Fill in the following information:
    1. For the **Folder Path**, enter **MRPhotos**.
    2. For the **File Name**, select the text box and then choose the option for **Ask in PowerApps**.
    
        ![Screenshot highlighting the file name field.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/file-name-ask.png "Screenshot highlighting the file name field")

    3. For **File Content**:
       1. Select the text box and then choose **Expression**. Enter `decodeDataUri(replace(triggerBody()?['Createfile_FileContent'], '"', ''))` and then select **OK**. 

           ![Screenshot highlighting the file content field.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/file-content-code.png "Screenshot highlighting the file content field")

       2. Under the **Dynamic content** section, select **See more** and then choose **Ask in PowerApps**.  

           
           ![Screenshot highlighting the See more button.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/see-more.png "Screenshot highlighting the See more button")

          Adding this content adds a second purple box named **Createfile_FileContent** into the **Create file** task.  
          
          Select **X** to remove it. 

          ![Screenshot highlighting the X next to the label to be removed.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/flow-remove-ask-code.png "Screenshot highlighting the X next to the label to be removed")



6. Your Flow should now have the **Folder Path**, **File Name**, and **File Content** fields filled in:
    
    ![Screenshot showing the fields filled in.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/flow-complete.png "Screenshot showing the fields filled in")

7. Save the flow and return to the browser tab that has your canvas app open. You'll see your flow now shows up in the **Data** pane.

    ![Screenshot of the data pane with the flow shown.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/flow-data-pane.png "Screenshot of the data pane with the flow shown")


8. Open the **Insert** tab and select **Button**.
9. Change the **Text** property of the button to `Upload photos`, and set the font size to 16. Move the button to a free area on the app screen and change its size so the button label fits inside it properly.
10. In the expression editor at the top of the Power Apps window, select the **OnSelect** property, and then select the **Action** tab. Select **Power Automate**, and then select the flow you created.

    ![Screenshot highlighting the OnSelect property, Action tab, Power Automate button, and the flow.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/add-flow-to-button.png "Screenshot highlighting the OnSelect property, Action tab, Power Automate button, and the flow")


11. The **OnSelect** method will be populated with `YourFlowName.Run(`. Insert the following code to upload the last photo taken to the **MRPhotos** folder on OneDrive: 

    
    `UploadMRPhoto.Run(Last(ViewInMR1.Photos).ImageURI, JSON(Last(ViewInMR1.Photos).ImageURI, JSONFormat.IncludeBinaryData));`
    

    ![Screenshot showing the code in the expression editor.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/button-upload-code.png "Screenshot showing the code in the expression editor")

    If you're inside a gallery of the MR photos, instead use the following formula:
    
    `UploadMRPhoto.Run(ThisItem.ImageURI, JSON(ThisItem.ImageURI, JSONFormat.IncludeBinaryData));`

    If you want to create a button that uploads all of the photos taken in the MR session, use this formula: 

    `ForAll(ViewInMR1.Photos, UploadMRPhoto.Run(ImageURI, JSON(ImageURI, JSONFormat.IncludeBinaryData)));`

## Use SaveData and LoadData functions

You can use the **SaveData** and **LoadData** functions In Power Apps with the MR components.

See the [SaveData, LoadData, and ClearData functions in Power Apps](./functions/function-savedata-loaddata.md) topic for how to use these functions.

## Other mixed-reality controls

- View 3D content with the **[View in 3D](mixed-reality-component-view-3d.md)** component.
- Measure distance, area, and volume with the **[Measure in mixed reality](mixed-reality-component-measure-distance.md)** component.
- Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the **[View shape in mixed reality](mixed-reality-component-view-shape.md)** component


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

add tip for alt clicking the MR button

powerapps-docs/maker/canvas-apps/mixed-reality-take-upload-photos.md, after:

---
title: Take real-world screenshots of objects in mixed reality
description: Use your app to take photos of 3D objects that are overlaid in the real world.
author: iaanw
manager: shellyha
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: canvas
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.date: 3/25/2021
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: iawilt
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
contributors:
  - iaanw
---



# Take and upload mixed-reality photos in Power Apps


You can add a control to take photos of the mixed-reality (MR) experience in your apps that use the following components:
- [View in MR](mixed-reality-component-view-mr.md)
- [View shape in MR](mixed-reality-component-view-shape.md)
- [Measure in MR](mixed-reality-component-measure-distance.md)


This topic will guide you through creating a test app that you can use to take and upload photos from within an MR session, including:

- Inserting a **View in 3D** component with the default sample 3D object included so you can see and manipulate a 3D object.
- Connecting the **View in 3D** component to a **View in MR** component button so you can view the 3D object in MR.
- Testing the components using an MR-capable device.
- Inserting a gallery to view recorded photos taken from the **View in MR** component on the MR-capable device.
- Uploading photos to OneDrive with a Power Automate flow.

## Prerequisites

- Create a blank canvas app ready for editing.
  - Go to the [Power Apps Studio](https://create.powerapps.com) and, under the **Start with a blank canvas or a template** section, select **Phone layout** on the **Blank app** tile.  
- Have a OneDrive folder called **MRPhotos** that you can store your photos in when testing the upload feature.



> [!TIP]
> The MR components work best in well-lit environments with flat-textured surfaces. When establishing tracking, point the device at the surface you would like to track and slowly pan the device from right to left in broad arm motions. If tracking fails, exit and enter the MR view to reset the tracking and try again.  
>
> LIDAR-enabled devices will also result in better tracking.

## Insert and connect a 3D object to the View in MR component and test your app

With an app open for editing in [Power Apps Studio](https://create.powerapps.com), you can insert and connect the **View in 3D** and **View in MR** components. Using these components lets you overlay a sample 3D object (which looks like a box's frame) into the real world using your device's camera.

1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Expand **Media**.
3. Select the component **View in 3D** to place it in the center of the app screen, or drag it to position it anywhere on the screen.  

    A default shape is included in the component. You can change this shape to another by altering the **Source** property. For more information, see [how to define where the 3D content is stored](mixed-reality-component-view-3d-store.md). In this example, we'll use the URL *https://raw.githubusercontent.com/microsoft/experimental-pcf-control-assets/master/robot_arm.glb*.
1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Expand **Mixed reality**.
3. Select the component **View in MR** to place it in the app screen, or drag it to position it anywhere on the screen.


    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented-view-mr/augmented-view-mr.png" alt-text="Insert the View in MR component into the app.":::

1. In the **Properties** panel for the **View in MR** component, on the **Advanced** tab, select the **Source** field and enter `ViewIn3D1.Source` to set the source object as the 3D object you inserted with the **View in 3D** component.  

    You can also use the expression editor at the top of the window: type `ViewIn3D1.Source`.

   ![Screenshot showing the Source property with ViewIn3D1.Source in the expression editor.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/add-3d-model-source.png "Screenshot showing the Source property with ViewIn3D1.Source in the expression editor")


9. [Save (and, if necessary, publish) the app](save-publish-app.md) and [load it on your mobile device](/powerapps/maker/canvas-apps/../mobile/run-powerapps-on-mobile) to test that you can view the 3D object in MR by selecting the **View in MR** button.


## Insert a gallery to view photos taken in the app

You can now insert a gallery control into your app. The gallery control lets users of the app take and view photos from within the app.

Photos you take by selecting the camera icon in the MR view on the app will be loaded into the gallery component on the app. If you exit the MR view to see the gallery, re-entering the MR view and taking more photos will overwrite the photos.

1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Select the **Vertical gallery** control to place it in the center of the app screen, or drag it to position it anywhere on the screen.
3. In the **Properties** panel for the gallery control, on the **Advanced** tab, set the **Items** property to equal `ViewInMR1.Photos`.  
    
    You can also use the expression editor at the top of the window.
    
    ![Screenshot showing the Items property with ViewInMR1.Photos.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/add-gallery-source.png "Screenshot showing the Items property with ViewInMR1.Photos")


    > [!TIP]
    > You can load all photos taken across multiple MR components by adding `Collect(AllPhotos,ViewInMR1.Photos)` to the **OnChange** property of each MR component.

    > [!TIP]
    > While working with the MR controls in the studio you can hold the `Alt` key and click on the MR button to generate sample photos and data.

You can insert a "pop-up" overlay of the selected image so users of the app can see the photo full size.

1. Open the **Insert** tab.
2. Expand **Media** and select the **Image** control to place it in the app screen. Drag and position it so it covers the entire screen (or however much of the screen you want the image to cover when selected from the gallery).

    ![Drag the image control to fill the screen.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/insert-pop-up.png "Drag the image control to fill the screen")

3. Go to the **Advanced** tab of the **Properties** pane:  
    1. Change the **OnSelect** property to `UpdateContext({vVisibleImageZoom:false})`.
    2. Change the **Image** property to `Gallery1.Selected.Image1` (or whatever the first image in the gallery control is labeled).
    3. Change the **Visible** property to `vVisibleImageZoom`.
4. Select the first image in the gallery control.
5. Go to the **Advanced** tab of the **Properties** pane and change the **OnSelect** property to `UpdateContext({vVisibleImageZoom:true})`.

    ![With the image thumbnail in the gallery selected, change the OnSelect property.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/set-gallery-onselect.png "With the image thumbnail in the gallery selected, change the OnSelect property")

6. [Save and publish the app](save-publish-app.md) and [load it on your mobile device](/powerapps/maker/canvas-apps/../mobile/run-powerapps-on-mobile).
7. Tap the **View in MR** button to open MR view. 
8. Tap the screenshot icon at the bottom of the screen, then tap the back arrow at the top of the screen.
9. You should see the screenshot now showing underneath the **View in MR** button. Tap the screenshot's thumbnail, and a large version of the screenshot will appear. Tap anywhere on the image to hide it.




## Upload photos to OneDrive with a Power Automate flow


1. Go to the **Action** tab and select **Power Automate**, followed by **Create a new flow**. This option opens Power Automate in a new browser tab. You might need to sign in at the top.

    ![Select Action, then select Power Automate.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/open-automate.png "Select Action, then select Power Automate")
2. Choose the template for a **PowerApps button**.

    ![Select the PowerApps button template.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/create-power-apps-button.png "Select the PowerApps button template")
3. To make it easier to find later, rename the flow by selecting **PowerApps button** at the top and entering a new name.

    ![Change the name on the top of the screen.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/rename-flow.png "Change the name on the top of the screen")

4. Select **+ New step**. Search for **OneDrive create file** and select the **Create file** action that appears in the results.

    ![Screenshot highlighting the Create file action.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/create-onedrive.png "Screenshot highlighting the Create file action")

    Make sure you are signed in to the correct OneDrive account where you want to upload your photos.

5. Fill in the following information:
    1. For the **Folder Path**, enter **MRPhotos**.
    2. For the **File Name**, select the text box and then choose the option for **Ask in PowerApps**.
    
        ![Screenshot highlighting the file name field.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/file-name-ask.png "Screenshot highlighting the file name field")

    3. For **File Content**:
       1. Select the text box and then choose **Expression**. Enter `decodeDataUri(replace(triggerBody()?['Createfile_FileContent'], '"', ''))` and then select **OK**. 

           ![Screenshot highlighting the file content field.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/file-content-code.png "Screenshot highlighting the file content field")

       2. Under the **Dynamic content** section, select **See more** and then choose **Ask in PowerApps**.  

           
           ![Screenshot highlighting the See more button.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/see-more.png "Screenshot highlighting the See more button")

          Adding this content adds a second purple box named **Createfile_FileContent** into the **Create file** task.  
          
          Select **X** to remove it. 

          ![Screenshot highlighting the X next to the label to be removed.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/flow-remove-ask-code.png "Screenshot highlighting the X next to the label to be removed")



6. Your Flow should now have the **Folder Path**, **File Name**, and **File Content** fields filled in:
    
    ![Screenshot showing the fields filled in.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/flow-complete.png "Screenshot showing the fields filled in")

7. Save the flow and return to the browser tab that has your canvas app open. You'll see your flow now shows up in the **Data** pane.

    ![Screenshot of the data pane with the flow shown.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/flow-data-pane.png "Screenshot of the data pane with the flow shown")


8. Open the **Insert** tab and select **Button**.
9. Change the **Text** property of the button to `Upload photos`, and set the font size to 16. Move the button to a free area on the app screen and change its size so the button label fits inside it properly.
10. In the expression editor at the top of the Power Apps window, select the **OnSelect** property, and then select the **Action** tab. Select **Power Automate**, and then select the flow you created.

    ![Screenshot highlighting the OnSelect property, Action tab, Power Automate button, and the flow.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/add-flow-to-button.png "Screenshot highlighting the OnSelect property, Action tab, Power Automate button, and the flow")


11. The **OnSelect** method will be populated with `YourFlowName.Run(`. Insert the following code to upload the last photo taken to the **MRPhotos** folder on OneDrive: 

    
    `UploadMRPhoto.Run(Last(ViewInMR1.Photos).ImageURI, JSON(Last(ViewInMR1.Photos).ImageURI, JSONFormat.IncludeBinaryData));`
    

    ![Screenshot showing the code in the expression editor.](./media/augmented-upload-photo/button-upload-code.png "Screenshot showing the code in the expression editor")

    If you're inside a gallery of the MR photos, instead use the following formula:
    
    `UploadMRPhoto.Run(ThisItem.ImageURI, JSON(ThisItem.ImageURI, JSONFormat.IncludeBinaryData));`

    If you want to create a button that uploads all of the photos taken in the MR session, use this formula: 

    `ForAll(ViewInMR1.Photos, UploadMRPhoto.Run(ImageURI, JSON(ImageURI, JSONFormat.IncludeBinaryData)));`

## Use SaveData and LoadData functions

You can use the **SaveData** and **LoadData** functions In Power Apps with the MR components.

See the [SaveData, LoadData, and ClearData functions in Power Apps](./functions/function-savedata-loaddata.md) topic for how to use these functions.

## Other mixed-reality controls

- View 3D content with the **[View in 3D](mixed-reality-component-view-3d.md)** component.
- Measure distance, area, and volume with the **[Measure in mixed reality](mixed-reality-component-measure-distance.md)** component.
- Create and view predefined 3D shapes with the **[View shape in mixed reality](mixed-reality-component-view-shape.md)** component


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
