powerapps-docs/maker/canvas-apps/mixed-reality-cgtrader.md, before:

---
title: Load models from CGTrader into mixed reality components (preview)
description: Learn how to load models from CGTrader into mixed reality components
author: tapanm-msft
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: canvas
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.date: 11/12/2021
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: anuitz
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
contributors:
  - olidum
  - tapanm-msft
  - anuitz
---

# Load models from CGTrader into mixed reality components (preview)

[This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - This is a preview feature.
> - [!INCLUDE[cc_preview_features_definition](../../includes/cc-preview-features-definition.md)]

Microsoft Power Platform offers [CGTrader connector](/connectors/cgtrader/) to connect with CGTrader, a large source of free and premium (paid) 3D content with thousands of models. Content from CGTrader can be browsed and loaded from inside a canvas app, and then used within the [View in 3D](mixed-reality-component-view-3d.md) and [View in MR](mixed-reality-component-view-mr.md) components.

This connector acts as a proxy to the CGTrader APIs. It provides [_actions_](/connectors/connectors#actions) that allows users to make requests to the CGTrader API and retrieve model data. More information: [Connectors overview](/connectors/custom-connectors/use-custom-connector-powerapps)

> [!TIP]
> Connecting to an existing 3D content database allows you to build apps with mixed reality without having to create your own 3D models.

## Request access from CGTrader

CGTrader connector links to your CGTrader account, allowing you access to 3D models available to your CGTrader account. To request this access, contact [CGTrader for Developers](https://www.cgtrader.com/developers).

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure you store the API key (Client ID and Client Secret) received from CGTrader in a secure location.

## Create a new CGTrader connector

Follow these steps to create a new CGTrader connector after you receive your [CGTrader API key](#request-access-from-cgtrader).

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/).

1. Expand the **Dataverse**.

1. Select **Connections**.

1. Select **+ New connection**.

1. Search for and select **CGTrader (preview)**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the connections search result.":::

1. Enter the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** received from CGTrader.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-key.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the new connection panel.":::

A new CGTrader connection is now listed on the **Connections** page.

:::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-new.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Connections page.":::

## Add the connector to your canvas app

1. [Edit](edit-app.md) an existing canvas app, or create a [blank canvas app](add-data-connection.md#open-a-blank-app).

1. Select **Data** from the left-pane.

1. Select **Add data**.

1. Search for and select CGTrader connection that you created earlier.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-data-source.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Data Source panel.":::

You can now bind your components to the CGTrader connector actions, and browse and load models from CGTrader inside your app.

> [!TIP]
> A connection is an instance of a connector. You can have multiple connections with different configurations. You can also create a connection from within Power Apps Studio by selecting the connector name instead of the connection.

## Load CGTrader models directly into View in 3D or View in MR

After adding CGTrader connection to your app, you can load models directly into your app with the following steps.

1. Find the model you want in your app from the [CGTrader website](https://www.cgtrader.com/).

1. Select the model, and then note the **Model ID** and the supported file types.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-model-id.png" alt-text="The model ID listed on the CGTrader model page.":::

1. Open your app in Power Apps Studio.

1. Select and drag **View in 3D** or **View in MR** component to the canvas screen.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-components.png" alt-text="Insert the View in 3D or View in MR component into the app.":::

1. Set the **Source** property of the component (View in 3D/View in MR) to `CGTrader.GetModel(model_id, "file_type")`, where **model_id** is the ID of your selected model, and **file_type** is one of the supported file types.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-example.png" alt-text="The View in 3D component with a source from CGTrader.":::

## Connector actions

Below table lists the most common actions and examples. For a complete list of all connector actions, their parameters, and return types, go to the [CGTrader connector reference](/connectors/cgtrader/#actions).

| Action | Description | Example |
|--|--|--|
| **[GetModel](/connectors/cgtrader/#downloads-a-model-with-the-given-id-and-file-type.)** | Downloads a model with the given ID and file type. | `CGTrader.GetModel(_model_id_, _"file_type"_)` |
| **[GetModelInfo](/connectors/cgtrader/#gets-the-info-of-a-model-with-the-given-id.)** | Gets the info of a model with the given ID. | `CGTrader.GetModelInfo(_model_id_)` |
| **[SearchModels](/connectors/cgtrader/#searches-for-models-from-cgtrader-based-on-the-given-filters.)** | Searches for models from CGTrader based on the given filters. _Consider binding the items in a Gallery to this action._ | `CGTrader.SearchModels({keywords:"_keywords_",extensions:"_file_types_"}).Models` |
| **[GetCategories](/connectors/cgtrader/#gets-the-available-category-names-and-ids.)** | Gets the available category names and IDs. | `CGTrader.GetCategories()` |

### See also

- [View 3D content in canvas apps](mixed-reality-component-view-3d.md) <br>
- [View 3D content or images in the real word](mixed-reality-component-view-mr.md)

Commit message:

Update CGTrader Doc
These are edits our team found during our review

powerapps-docs/maker/canvas-apps/mixed-reality-cgtrader.md, after:

---
title: Load models from CGTrader into mixed reality components (preview)
description: Learn how to load models from CGTrader into mixed reality components
author: tapanm-msft
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: canvas
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.date: 11/12/2021
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: anuitz
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
contributors:
  - olidum
  - tapanm-msft
  - anuitz
---

# Load models from CGTrader into mixed reality components (preview)

[This article is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - This is a preview feature.
> - [!INCLUDE[cc_preview_features_definition](../../includes/cc-preview-features-definition.md)]

Microsoft Power Platform offers the [CGTrader connector](/connectors/cgtrader/) for connecting with CGTrader, a large source of free and premium (paid) 3D content with thousands of models. Content from CGTrader can be browsed and loaded from inside a canvas app or portal, and then used within the [View in 3D](mixed-reality-component-view-3d.md) and [View in MR](mixed-reality-component-view-mr.md) components.

This connector acts as a proxy to the CGTrader APIs. It provides [_actions_](/connectors/connectors#actions) that allow users to make requests to the CGTrader API and retrieve model data. More information: [Connectors overview](/connectors/custom-connectors/use-custom-connector-powerapps)

Connecting to an existing 3D content database allows you to build apps with mixed reality without having to create your own 3D models.

## Request access from CGTrader

CGTrader connector links to your CGTrader account, allowing you access to 3D models available to your CGTrader account, including purchased content. 

To request access, contact [CGTrader for Developers](https://www.cgtrader.com/developers). CGTrader will review your information and contact you with an OAuth 2.0 API Key in the form of a **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure you store the API key (Client ID and Client Secret) received from CGTrader in a secure location.

## Create a new CGTrader connector

Follow these steps to create a new CGTrader connector after you receive your [CGTrader API key](#request-access-from-cgtrader).

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/).

1. Select **Dataverse** from the left-pane.

1. Select **Connections**.

1. Select **+ New connection**.

1. Search for and select **CGTrader (preview)**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the connections search result.":::

1. Enter the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** received from CGTrader.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-key.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the new connection panel.":::

A new CGTrader connection is now listed on the **Connections** page.

:::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-new.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Connections page.":::

## Add the connector to your canvas app

1. [Edit](edit-app.md) an existing canvas app, or create a [blank canvas app](add-data-connection.md#open-a-blank-app).

1. Select **Data** from the left-pane.

1. Select **Add data**.

1. Search for and select **CGTrader**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-data-source.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Data Source panel.":::

1. Select the connection that you created earlier.

    :::image type="content" source="media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-data-source-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Data Source panel.":::

You can now bind your components to the CGTrader connector actions, and browse and load models from CGTrader inside your app.

> [!TIP]
> A connection is an instance of a connector. You can have multiple connections with different configurations. You can also create new connections from within Power Apps Studio when adding the connector by selecting **+ Add a connection**

## Load CGTrader models directly into View in 3D or View in MR

After adding a CGTrader connection to your app, you can load models directly into your app with the following steps.

1. Find the model you want in your app from the [CGTrader website](https://www.cgtrader.com/).

1. Select the model, and then note the **Model ID** and the supported file types.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-model-id.png" alt-text="The model ID listed on the CGTrader model page.":::

1. Open your app in Power Apps Studio.

1. Select and drag a **View in 3D** or **View in MR** component to the canvas screen.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-components.png" alt-text="Insert the View in 3D or View in MR component into the app.":::

1. Set the **Source** property of the component (View in 3D/View in MR) to `CGTrader.GetModel(model_id, "file_type")`, where **model_id** is the ID of your selected model, and **file_type** is one of the supported file types.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/augmented/mixed-reality-connector-example.png" alt-text="The View in 3D component with a source from CGTrader.":::

## Connector actions

The below table lists the most common actions and examples. For a complete list of all connector actions, their parameters, and return types, go to the [CGTrader connector reference](/connectors/cgtrader/#actions).

| Action | Description | Example |
|--|--|--|
| **[GetModel](/connectors/cgtrader/#downloads-a-model-with-the-given-id-and-file-type.)** | Downloads a model with the given ID and file type. | `CGTrader.GetModel(_model_id_, _"file_type"_)` |
| **[GetModelInfo](/connectors/cgtrader/#gets-the-info-of-a-model-with-the-given-id.)** | Gets the info of a model with the given ID. | `CGTrader.GetModelInfo(_model_id_)` |
| **[SearchModels](/connectors/cgtrader/#searches-for-models-from-cgtrader-based-on-the-given-filters.)** | Searches for models from CGTrader based on the given filters. _Consider binding the items in a Gallery to this action._ | `CGTrader.SearchModels({keywords:"_keywords_",extensions:"_file_types_"}).Models` |
| **[GetCategories](/connectors/cgtrader/#gets-the-available-category-names-and-ids.)** | Gets the available category names and IDs. | `CGTrader.GetCategories()` |

### See also

- [View 3D content in canvas apps](mixed-reality-component-view-3d.md) <br>
- [View 3D content or images in the real word](mixed-reality-component-view-mr.md)
