---
title: Extend the Return to the Workplace Solution
description: Provides an overview of how to extend the Return to the Workplace solution.
author: v-wfranc
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: 
ms.date: 10/14/2020
ms.author: garybird
ms.reviewer: kvivek
---

# What's new in the Return to the Workplace solution?

## New and updated features in October 2020 (v1.2)

### Guest bookings (Employee App)

To support essential visits to a facility, employees can now register, book
passes for their escorted guests and share passes with them through Outlook

![Guest Booking](media/whats-new-employee-app-guest-booking.png "Guest Booking")

### QR code (Employee App)

The new update also introduces QR code functionality that enables integration
with health and safety systems, such as temperature scanning and badge reader
systems.

### Manual contact tracing (Workplace care management app)

Manual contact tracers can quickly identify case contacts through a suggested
list, and manually add additional case contacts. The case contacts can be
evaluated, and new cases can be opened, if needed

### Employee access management (Workplace care management app)

Case managers can now manage facility access and set a date when facility access
will be next available for the affected employee and provide them instructions
through the app

![](media/whats-new-employee-app-access-management1.jpg)    ![](media/whats-new-employee-app-access-management2.jpg)

### Prioritized case view (Workplace care management app)

A new view for case managers has been introduced to help them prioritize their
case workload. They can view the list of high-risk cases and cases due for
contact and investigation. They can also visualize cases by duration they have
been open and by their risk.

### View and assess case clusters (Workplace care management dashboard)

Health and safety leaders can visualize case clusters and view associated
metrics to assess risk of an outbreak and take immediate actions. The core data
for visualizations is sourced from the manual contact tracing feature in the
workplace care management app

![](media/whats-new-workplacecare-pbi-cluster.png)

![](media/whats-new-workplacecare-pbi-cluster-network.png)

### Contact type field (Facility safety management app)

Contacts are now differentiated by a new contact type field: Employee and Guest,
that enables a facility manager to differentiate between an employee and
non-employee.

### Enhanced occupancy dashboards (Facility management dashboard)

The occupancy dashboards have been updated to reflect guest registrations.

## New and updated features in August 2020 (v.1.1)

### Employee bookings and arrivals (Employee app)

Employees can now book space in available buildings remotely through the
application. They can choose from specific floors and areas that are available,
choose arrival times to avoid high-traffic hours, attest to being symptom-free,
and receive a personalized day pass that can be used for building entry.

![](media/whats-new-employee-app-bookings-and-arrivals.png)

### New dashboard for health and safety leaders (Workplace care management dashboard)

With this update, we are introducing a new Microsoft Power BI dashboard for
health and safety leaders that are authorized to view employee cases across the
organization. The dashboard provides an overview of all cases with filters to
view specific locations. There are also focused reports for viewing cases under
investigation and cases being monitored to ensure health and safety and task
force leadership have a comprehensive and consolidated view.

![](media/whats-new-workplacecare-dashboard-pbi.png)

### Partition facility and set capacity limits (Facility safety management app)

We are introducing a new Location Management capability designed to enable
companies to better manage facility occupancy and arrivals, ensuring effective
social distancing. Facility managers can partition workspace into floors and
areas based on adjusted designs and establish capacity limits for each. Area
capacity can also be limited by phase. These limits establish how many passes
can be issued daily to ensure adherence to safety constraints. 

### New occupancy tab (Facility management dashboard)

The new occupancy tab enables a facility manager to monitor and manage occupancy
by comparing bookings and visits against capacity. The facility manager can view
trends by time and drill down to a floor and an area level to identify the high
occupancy spaces.

![](media/whats-new-facility-management-pbi-occupancy.png)

### New Daily Arrivals tab (Facility management dashboard)

This tab shows booking information to assist a facility manager in controlling
the facility traffic, such as bookings by day of the week and by arrival time
window

![](media/whats-new-facility-management-pbi-arrivals.png)

## New and updated features in July 2020 (v1.0)

### Employee app

Allow employees to self-serve in looking up facility status and workspace
availability. Employees can let the organization know how they are feeling about
safely returning to work.

![](media/whats-new-rtw-v1-employee-app-featues.png)

### Facility safety management app

Provide facility managers the tools they need to manage the reopening and
readiness of the facilities. This helps organizations ensure that they can
provide a safe working environment for employees to return to the workplace

![](media/whats-new-rtw-v1-facility-management-app.png)

### Workplace care management app

Allow case managers to open and investigate cases for affected employees and
import data from external systems to support case management.

![](media/whats-new-rtw-v1-workplace-care-management-app.png)

### Facility management dashboard

The app allows facility managers to:

-   visualize reopening readiness based on virus spread, COVID cases and
    facility readiness

-   monitor locations daily to advance or retreat phases.

-   consolidate signals and scores into a readiness model

    ![](media/whats-new-rtw-v1-facility-management-dashboard.png)

### Location readiness dashboard

Allow leaders to review current data related to all conditions and facility
readiness factors, compare selected measures and metrics associated to targets
for locations, review guidelines set for locations by government agencies.

![](media/whats-new-rtw-v1-location-readiness-dashboard.png)
