---
title: Delete a column with an AI Skill Config table dependency in Power Apps
description: Learn how to use the AI Skill Config table to remove a dependency for a column in Power Apps.
author: Mattp123
contributors:
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 08/11/2025
ms.author: damialajogun
ms.reviewer: matp
---
# Delete a column with an AI Skill Config table dependency in Power Apps

The AI Skill Config table is a configuration table used with AI Builder to manage AI-related features, such as form fill assistance and row summary. The AI Skill Config table acts as a centralized store for AI feature settings, helping to avoid schema changes for each new feature and supports application lifecycle management (ALM) to ensure smooth transitions across environments.

To locate the AI Skill Config table go to **Solutions** on the left navigation pane, then open the desired solution. If any AI-related features have been customized in the solution, the AI skill config table appears in the **Objects** pane on the left.

:::image type="content" source="media/ai-skill-config-table/ai-skill-config-table.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the AI skill config table in the Objects pane.":::

## Remove an AI Skill Config table record dependency for a column

When enabled, users receive suggestions generated by AI for columns that support form fill assistance in forms and grids. When a user opts out of AI features or for example when a maker disables the **Allow form fill assistance** column property on a table column, a record is created in the AI Skill Config table to store that configuration. This record creates a dependency on the AI Skill Config table for the column.

To find whether the **Allow form fill assistance** setting is disabled for a column, open the desired table, select **Columns** in the **Schema** area, and then open the column. The setting is found in the properties pane.

:::image type="content" source="media/ai-skill-config-table/allow-form-fill-assistance-setting.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the form fill assistance setting disabled in the column properties pane.":::

To delete the column, you must first delete the record created in the config table, otherwise you receive the message "Failed to delete Fields (column name). Object dependencies exist, please review before deleting."

1. Go to **Solutions** on the left navigation pane, then open the desired solution.
1. Select the AI Skill Config table from the **Objects** pane on the left.
1. In the list of records in the AI Skill Config table, find the record that you want to delete. The record has a **Display name** that corresponds to the table **Name** plus column **Display name** for the column you want to delete.
1. Select **Remove** > **Remove from this solution**. <!-- Do you need to remove it from the environment or is it enough to just remove from the solution?-->
   :::image type="content" source="media/ai-skill-config-table/remove-ai-skill-config-record.png" alt-text="Remove an ai skill config table record for a column":::

## Related articles

[Use Copilot's form fill assistance feature in model-driven apps](/power-apps/user/form-filling-assistance).

[Configure a row summary for a model-driven app main form](configure-form-row-summary.md).
