---
title: "Create virtual tables using virtual connectors (preview) (Microsoft Dataverse) | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Learn how to create virtual tables using virtual connectors in Microsoft Dataverse."
ms.date: 12/08/2022
ms.reviewer: matp
ms.topic: article
author: NHelgren # GitHub ID
ms.author: nhelgren
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
contributors: 
  - JimDaly
  - phecke 
---
# Create virtual tables using the virtual connector provider (preview)

[!INCLUDE [cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer](../../includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]

Virtual tables enable integrating data from external data sources by seamlessly representing that data as tables in Microsoft Dataverse, without data replication. Solutions, apps, flows, and more can use virtual tables as if they were native Dataverse tables. Virtual tables allow for full create, read, update, and delete privileges unless the data source they are connecting to specifically forbids it. More information about virtual tables: [Create and edit virtual tables that contain data from an external data source](create-edit-virtual-entities.md).

To create a virtual table, you must have a Microsoft Dataverse license through Power Apps or Microsoft Dynamics 365. Microsoft 365 or Teams licenses can't be used to create virtual tables.

In this public preview release, we're introducing a new user experience using the Maker portal to create virtual tables using the following virtual connector providers:

- [SQL Server](/connectors/sql/) 
- [Microsoft SharePoint](/connectors/sharepointonline/)

> [!NOTE]
> Virtual tables for Excel can be made with the virtual connector provider using Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) to create virtual tables by following similar steps outlined in this document. More information: [Connector reference for the Microsoft Excel Online Business connector](/connectors/excelonlinebusiness/)

## Overview

Virtual tables include the following components:

:::image type="content" source="media/ve-components.png" alt-text="Virtual table components":::

- Data Source – the location where the external data is stored.
- Data Provider – defines the behavior of the virtual table.
- Connection – this sets up the ability to connect to the data source and authentication.
- Connection reference – this provides a way for Dataverse to use the connection to the data source.

If you were to create a virtual table using a custom data provider, you would need to write plugins that define how every Dataverse API would interact with the API on the system where the data is stored. This is a long process which requires knowledge of coding. Virtual connector providers streamline the creation experience by automating some of the creation for you and removing the need to use code to create the virtual tables.

When you establish a remote connection to an external source using a connector data source, the virtual connector provider automatically retrieves a list of all the available tables and lists by retrieving table definitions (metadata) from the external data source. You then select these tables and lists to generate the virtual table.

> [!NOTE]
> When you use the Excel virtual connector provider, an **Entity Catalog** table is generated by the system which provides a list of all the available tables using the table definitions from the external data source. The **Entity Catalog** doesn't persist any information and always represents the external data source's current state. You can select tables from the **Entity Catalog** to create virtual tables. If you're working with multiple external data sources, an **Entity Catalog** is generated for each external source.

The underlying data source is key for allowing the provider to establish an authenticated remote connection to the external data. It uses a connection reference that stores pertinent details regarding the external source. The information stored in the connection reference is specific to the connector type and the connection it refers to.

:::image type="content" source="media/ve-connector-provider-overview.png" alt-text="Virtual connectors provider overview":::

When setting up the connection and connection reference for your data sources, specific information will be needed. For example, setting up the **SQL Server** connector needs server name, database name, the authentication method, username, password, and (optionally) gateway connection details. Each external data source will need a connection reference to be defined to create the virtual table. When using the Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) experience the connection reference can be generated automatically for you unless you wish to provide custom naming.

> [!NOTE]
> When you use the Excel virtual connector provider, you'll need to create your own connection reference following the steps in this document.

The connector permissions enforce the ability for organizational users to access and operate on the virtual table. The connection can be shared with one user or can be shared with entire organization. This allows users to access and operate virtual tables using a shared connection. Through the use of security roles, virtual table access can be restricted to a specific set of users within your organization. You can even specify which roles have create, read, update, or delete privileges in this way.

Application lifecycle management (ALM) is supported for virtual tables created using the virtual connector provider, you can even create the virtual tables from directly within the solution when using Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) portal. Virtual tables should be part of the managed solution along with the connection reference to distribute the solution. The solution can have other components, such as a model-driven app that uses virtual tables.

More information about application lifecycle management (ALM) and solutions:

- [Application lifecycle management (ALM) in Microsoft Power Platform](/power-platform/alm/)
- [Solutions overview](solutions-overview.md)

## Create a virtual table with the virtual connector provider

Creating a virtual table in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) with the virtual connector provider includes the following steps:

1. Create a table using an external data source.
1. Create the connection.
1. Create a connection reference (optional).
1. Choose your connection details.
1. Select your data.
1. Configure column and table names (optional).
1. Complete the setup.

### Create a virtual table using an external data source

In Power Apps, create a virtual table either from a solution or from a list of tables.

#### Select the data source connection

1. Sign into [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/?utm_source=padocs&utm_medium=linkinadoc&utm_campaign=referralsfromdoc), and then select **Solutions** on the left hand navigation pane.
1. Open an existing solution or create a new one.
1. Select **New** on the command bar, select **Table**, and then select **Table from external data**.
   :::image type="content" source="media/table-from-external-data-command.png" alt-text="Create a table from external data command":::
1. Choose from the following options for the connection:
   - To use an existing connection, select the connection you want.
   - If you have an existing connection but wish to create a new one, select **New Connection**, and complete the information on your screen that appears on a new browser tab.
   - If you don't have a connection for the data source you want, select **+Add Connection** next to the data source, and complete the information on your screen that appears on a new browser tab.
   - More information about creating a connection: [Create a SQL Server connection](/connectors/sql/#creating-a-connection) and [SharePoint connector](/connectors/sharepointonline/)

1. Select the connection reference, and then select **Next**.
1. [Configure the connection](#configure-the-connection)

#### Configure the connection

1. Depending on the data source:
   - For SharePoint connections: 
      1. Paste the URL of your SharePoint site in the provided field, or select from your most recently used SharePoint sites. The most recently used list is populated by gathering information about your recently used sites using Graph and your Azure Active Directory credentials. Select **Next**. 
      > [!NOTE]
      > If you are entering your SharePoint URL, only include the information up to the site name, such as *https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/Contoso*.
      1. **Search** your SharePoint site for a specific list, or select the one you want from the provided list, and then select **Next**.
      1. You can choose to modify the suggested table names by selecting [Configure table and column names that will be used in Dataverse](#configure-table-and-column-names-that-will-be-used-in-dataverse)

   - For SQL connections, enter the **SQL Server name** and **SQL database name**, and then select **Next**.  
      1. Select a table. Either **Search** the SQL database for a specific table and select it or select a table from the available tables.
      1. You can choose to modify the suggested table names by selecting [Configure table and column names that will be used in Dataverse](#configure-table-and-column-names-that-will-be-used-in-dataverse)

1. Select **Next**.

##### Manually create the connection reference (optional)

When you create a virtual table, your connection reference will automatically be created for you along with the virtual table. However, you can expand **Advanced Options** and then select the **Manually Configure Connection Reference** to manually create a connection reference for the virtual table.

> [!NOTE]
> - The benefit of optionally naming your connection reference is because it can be easier to find later if you need details about it.
> - If you are using an existing connection you can select an existing connection reference or create a new one. Creating a new connection reference is only used if you want to segment your virtual tables into completely unrelated solutions for use later.

When you manually configure your connection reference, you will be taken to the **Connection Reference** page. Select or name your connection reference and click **Next**.

Select or name your connection reference and select **Next**.

##### Configure table and column names that will be used in Dataverse

1. If you want to **Configure table and column names that will be used in Dataverse**, accept or change the following properties, and then select **Next**
   - **Display name**: The name that will be used to identify your virtual table.
   - **Plural name**: The plural of the virtual table name, used in appropriate situations where you refer to one or more record from the table, such as *Customer* is the table for multiple records refereed to as *Customers*.
   - **Schema name**: The logical name Dataverse uses for the virtual table, which includes the solution publisher prefix.
   - **Primary field**: This is the text value to be used when looking up records on your virtual table. Only string fields may be selected. A primary key is a required field but will be chosen by Dataverse.
 1. Choose if you would like to rename any of your columns. The following fields are provided: 
   - **External column**. This is the schema name of the column in the data source. This property is read only.
   - **Display name**. The name that's used to identify your column. 
   - **Schema name**. The logical name Dataverse will use for the column that will include your solution publisher prefix.
   There's a **Quick Format Names** option on the page, this will provide suggested name changes and can be useful if you have a large number of fields that include prefixed values from your SQL server such as &lt;tablename&gt;.&lt;column name&gt;. For example, *Database12.Products* would change to **Products**.

##### Complete the setup

1. The **Review and Finish** page shows you the table you are connecting to in your data source, and the table that will be created in Dataverse.
   > [!NOTE]
   > Select **Choose a different table** takes you back to the table selection screen. selecting **Edit Configuration of Table** takes you to the **Configuration** screen.
1.	If everything is correct select **Next**.

Once the table is created you are taken directly to your new virtual table where you can view your data and begin working with it. 

> [!NOTE]
> When you attempt to create a virtual table that already exists, you receive a message that the table already exists and that you will be re-creating it. You will not be able to change the primary field or schema name if this is the case. Re-creating the table will update any column changes that were made in the data source on the table.



1. Select the environment where you want to install the solution. If you agree to the terms and conditions, select **Install**. Once the installation is complete, you'll see the **Virtual connectors in Dataverse** app installed under **Environments -> [your environment name] -> Dynamics 365 apps**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-select-the-environment.png" alt-text="Select environment to install connector":::

1. You should also see the **Virtual Connector Provider** solution and other solutions enabled in the Power Apps environment.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-select-virtual-connectors-solution.png" alt-text="Virtual connector provider solution":::

### Videos that show how to create the connection

# [SQL Server](#tab/sql)

Watch a 4-minute video showing how to create a virtual table with the SQL virtual connector provider.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4XLkU]

# [Microsoft Excel Online (Business)](#tab/excel)

Watch a 4-minute video showing how to create a virtual table with the Excel virtual connector provider.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4YcGf]

# [Microsoft SharePoint](#tab/sharepoint)

Watch a 4-minute video showing how to create a virtual table with the SharePoint virtual connector provider. 

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4YcIk]

---


1. Go to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com), select the environment in which you would like to set up the virtual table.
1. In the left navigation pane, select **Data** > **Connections**, and then select **New connection**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-create-connection.png" alt-text="Create new connection in power apps":::

1. Select one of the following Virtual Connectors from the list of connections.
   - SQL Server
   - Microsoft Excel Online (Business)
   - Microsoft SharePoint  
1. You'll be asked to provide additional details to connect to the data source.

# [SQL Server](#tab/sql)

- Select your **Authentication type**. In this example SQL Authentication iss chosen.
- Enter the required credentials to connect. In this case, enter the SQL server name and SQL database name. 

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-sql-connection-server.png" alt-text="Connect to SQL":::

- If you're using an on-premises SQL server also enter the gateway information, and then select **Create**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-sql-connection-on-prem.png" alt-text="Connect to SQL on-premises with gateway information":::

# [Microsoft Excel Online (Business)](#tab/excel)

Select **Create**, your current signed-in credentials will be used.

:::image type="content" source="media/ve-excel-connection.png" alt-text="Connect to Excel":::

# [Microsoft SharePoint](#tab/sharepoint)

- Select to **Connect directly (cloud-services)** or **Connect using on-premises data gateway**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-sharepoint-connect.png" alt-text="Connect to Sharepoint":::

- For Direct connection, Sign in to SharePoint

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-sharepoint-direct-connect.png" alt-text="Use Direct connection":::

- For on-premises, select your authentication type, provide your credentials, choose a gateway, and then select **Create**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-sharepoint-connect-on-premises.png" alt-text="Connect to SharePoint with a gateway":::

---

<!--  
### Create the connection reference

1. Go to **Solutions**.
1. Select the **Default Solution** or any other existing solution you have in your environment to create the virtual table.
1. Select **New** and then select **Connection Reference (preview).**
1. Enter **Display name**, select the connection you created for the **Connectors** option and then select the data connection that you've created.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-new-connection-reference.png" alt-text="New connection reference":::


### Create the data source

Now create the virtual table data source in Dataverse.

1. Select the **Gear icon -> Advanced Settings**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-power-apps-advanced-settings.png" alt-text="Advanced Settings command":::

1. In the top navigation bar, select **Settings** and then **Administration**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-advanced-settings-system-administration.png" alt-text="Navigate to system administration":::

1. Select **Virtual Entity Data Sources**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-virtual-entity-data-sources-settings.png" alt-text="Virtual entity data sources settings":::

1. Select **New**. In the pop-up dialog, select the **Virtual Connector Data Provider**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-create-new-data-source.png" alt-text="New Data source":::

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-select-data-provider.png" alt-text="Select Virtual Connector Data Provider":::

1. Name your **Data Source** and select the **Connection Reference** you created in the drop-down list.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-name-data-source.png" alt-text="Name data source and select connection reference":::

   Add your Dataset Value
   - SQL Server
      - Leave the Dataset Value field empty
   - Microsoft Excel Online (Business)
      - Paste in the file name including extension into the Dataset Value. Remember the file must be in the OneDrive that was used for the Connection setup. (for example: SampleData.xlsx)
   - Microsoft SharePoint
      - Paste the URL to your SharePoint site in the Dataset Value field (ex: https://contosoenvname.sharepoint.com/sites/sitename)

1. Select **Save**.

### Entity catalog

With the connection reference and the virtual table data source setup, an **Entity Catalog** is automatically generated. The **Entity Catalog** is specific to the data source and will list all the tables that are in the respective data source.

:::image type="content" source="media/ve-entity-catalog.png" alt-text="Entity Catalog":::

> [!NOTE]
> - The creation of the entity catalog is an asynchronous process. Depending on your environment, this may take a few minutes.
> - The tables displayed in the entity catalog are not virtual tables in themselves. You need to select from this list of tables representing the external data to create virtual table in Dataverse.

#### View the entity catalog
  
- Select **Data** > **Tables**, and then select the entity catalog that was created. 
- Select **Advanced Find** and use the **Look for:** column. The catalog will include a prefix **Entity Catalog for** followed by the connection reference (example: Entity Catalog for Adventure Works DB). Find the entity catalog for your respective data connection and select **Results** to display all the external data source tables.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-advance-find-table-catalog.png" alt-text="Advanced find table catalog":::

  >[!Note]
  > Bulk creation of virtual tables is not supported currently. Even though the entity catalog allows you to select multiple tables, you will have to select one table at a time to create virtual tables.

1. To create a virtual table, a model driven app must be built for the entity catalog. Select the entity catalog table.

1. Select **Create an app** in the top navigation.

   :::image type="content" source="media/entity-catalog-table-selected-table-view.jpg" alt-text="Entity catalog with a table selected, table view":::

1. Name the app, and then select **Create**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/Create-an-app-screen.jpg" alt-text="Create a Model Driven app screen":::

The app is automatically generated using the entity catalog table.

1. Once the app is completed, you can select **Publish** to complete the app and use it later, or you can select **Play** to create your virtual table now without publishing the app.

   :::image type="content" source="media/completed-model-driven-app.jpg" alt-text="Completed model driven app":::

   All eligible data sets from your data source will be provided in the app view.

   - SQL: All tables in the database that are eligible are shown.
   - SharePoint: All lists in the site are shown.
   - Excel: All tables in the Excel file are shown.

1. Select the data set you wish to use from the entity catalog, and then select **Edit** in the navigation bar.

   :::image type="content" source="media/model-driven-app-entity-catalog-view.jpg" alt-text="Model Driven app Entity Catalog view with a data set selected":::

   Wait for the form to fully load before editing. When loaded the form will appear like this:

   :::image type="content" source="media/edit-form-for-entity-catalog-model-driven-app.jpg" alt-text="Entity Catalog edit form all fields blank":::

1. In the provided form set the **Create** or **Refresh Entity** column to Yes.

1. Select the **Primary Key** and **Primary Field** of the virtual entity by using the dropdown lists to find the columns you want to use.

   :::image type="content" source="media/edit-form-entity-catalog-fields-completed.jpg" alt-text="Entity Catalog edit form all fields completed":::

1. Save the record to create the virtual table.

   > [!Note] 
   > After the save completes, the form will "reset" with all fields shown as blank, this is normal.

1. Return to the Power Apps home page and select **Data**. Your virtual table is now created with a "Custom Entity" prefix. It may take a few moments for the creation to complete.

   :::image type="content" source="media/maker-table-view-virtual-table.png" alt-text="Maker portal with virtual table selected":::

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> - Virtual tables no longer require an associated GUID as a primary key with the virtual connector provider.
> - The provider automatically maps the primary key associated with the external data source when creating the virtual table. All CRUD operations can be performed on the generated virtual table.
> - All columns in the external data are automatically mapped to Dataverse types that are supported by the connector. You can review the virtual table details and make changes by navigating to **Settings -> Customization – Entities** view.
> - Virtual tables require there to be at least one string field to use as the **Primary Name** column.

Once you've created a virtual table, you can work with it much the same way as any other table. You can start defining the relationships with other tables, in the environment and use them in your Power Apps and Power Automate flows. -->

### Virtual table relationships

Virtual tables are  enabled for relationships. You can set up 1:N, N:1, N:N, and custom multi-table relationships. Relationships can be established between:

- Local tables in Dataverse and virtual tables.
- Virtual tables and other virtual tables from the same provider, for example SQL->SQL.

For instance, you can't set up a relationship between a virtual table created using the OData virtual table provider and a virtual table created using the virtual connector provider.

#### Defining relationships in virtual tables

Virtual tables created using the virtual connector provider automatically creates all the columns that are represented in the external source table. This will also include columns on which relationships are defined. However, the relationship definition won't be automatically created. You'll have to define this relationship in Dataverse manually.

The following example creates an N:1 relationship between a virtual table (**Service Request**) and a native table (**Account**). The column used to set up the relationship is **AccountId**. This column is the primary key in the account table and is a foreign key in the service request table.

A representation of the **Service Request** virtual table is shown below. You'll notice that the **AccountId** column, which is the column used for relationship in the external source, is of type **Multiple Line of Text**. You need to have this column represented as a **Lookup** type to create a relationship.

:::image type="content" source="media/ve-create-columns.png" alt-text="Create columns in virtual table":::

1. Go to **Advanced settings > Settings > Customization** and choose **Customize the System**.
1. In the left navigation pane, expand the **Entities** view and browse to the **Service Request** virtual table definition.
1. Select the **Fields** view, select the **AccountId** column, and then select **Delete**.
1. Choose **Delete** to confirm the deletion of this column.
1. To create the relationship, select the **N:1 Relationship** within the **Service Request** table.
1. Select **New Many-to-1 Relationship**.
1. Enter the following details to create the relationship between the **Service Request** virtual table and the **Account** table.
   1. In the **Relationship Definition** section – set the **Primary Entity** column value to **Account**.
   1. Optionally, if you want to edit the name of the relationship, you can do so in the **Name** column.
   1. In the **Lookup Field** section, set the **Display Name** to **Account.**
   1. The **Name** column automatically populates with the lookup column name.
   1. Set the **External Name** value to **AccountId** (matching the column name in your source table).
1. **Save**, and then close the relationship.

      :::image type="content" source="media/ve-create-relationship.png" alt-text="Create relationship":::

1. Refer to the columns for the **Service Request** virtual table, and you'll notice that the **AccountId** column is a **Lookup** type. This column can now
be added to forms and views to see all associated accounts for each of the service request record.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-custom-table-columns.png" alt-text="Custom table columns":::

1. With the relationship established you can now create a new service request and pick accounts to associate them to.

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-new-custom-table.png" alt-text="New custom table":::

  > [!NOTE]
  > You will have to edit the forms and views for this table to include the lookup column and other required columns prior to operation on the virtual table.

#### Tips

- The **Primary Key** column should be included in the create form if you didn't set up the column to increment during the design of the underlying source table automatically. You'll have to enter a valid value in the primary key column for an insert operation to succeed.
- If **Entity Catalog** creation takes a long time, you can check the job completion status by navigating to **Settings -> System Jobs** view.


## Known limitations

The following is a list of known limitations for virtual tables created using the virtual connector provider.

### General

- Maximum length of characters allowed for a text column in a virtual table is 4000 characters. If the source table has a maximum character limit greater than this value, any create/update operation exceeding the max character limit will result in a validation error, and the operation will fail.
- Virtual table queries are limited to return 250 records. If you've a 1:N or N:N relationship with a virtual table, any query exceeding this limit will fail and provide an error. Use filtering in your query to reduce the record set as a workaround to this limitation.
- Audit functionality isn't available for Virtual Tables, this is because Dataverse can only perform and store audit data for locally stored data.
- Rollups can't be calculated for virtual tables, this is because rollups are a server side calculation in Dataverse, which requires the data to be stored locally.

### For each data source

The following are limitations for each data source.

# [SQL Server](#tab/sql)

- SQL data type bigint columns in the source table will be mapped as a decimal data type in Dataverse virtual tables. When platform support is available for bigint mapping to a whole number, previously created columns in the virtual table will need to be deleted, and new columns should be created.
- SQL Server tables without primary keys: Any non-string field can be selected as the primary key. The virtual table should be created successfully. RetrieveMultiple will work, the other operations will fail with the following error message (coming from SQL connector): "APIM request wasn't successful: BadRequest: No primary key exists in table".
- SQL Server tables with a string primary key: The SQL string primary key will be the only option available for the virtual table primary key. The virtual table creation will succeed, but fail at runtime with this error: "String primary keys are supported only if they can be parsed as GUID". SQL Server string primary keys are supported only if the values can be parsed as GUID.
- SQL Server tables without non-primary key string fields: The primary field list will be empty and the user won't be able to create the virtual table. At least one non-primary key string field is required.
- SQL Server Connector Limitations: see [SQL Server connector reference](/connectors/sql/).

# [Microsoft Excel Online (Business)](#tab/excel)

- Excel files must be stored on a OneDrive to participate in a Virtual Table connection.
- The Primary key can only be a column holding GUID values: Because the Excel table metadata shows all columns as string, our current design assumes that the primary key will always be a GUID represented as a string.
  > [!NOTE]
  > No validation is performed when the virtual entity is created, if a non-GUID column is selected, the entity will fail at runtime with this error: "String primary keys are supported only if they can be parsed as GUID".
- Support for PowerAppsId__ auto-generated column: The _PowerAppsId_ auto-generated column will be used if found (it will be the only option available for primary key). Providing a value for PowerAppsId is required at record creation even if the value will actually be overwritten by an automatically generated one. This doesn't happen if the primary key column isn't the `PowerAppsId` auto-generated column.
- Specific Excel Connector Limitations: [Excel Online (Business) connector reference](/connectors/excelonlinebusiness/).

# [Microsoft SharePoint](#tab/sharepoint)

You currently can't select an **All** view for SharePoint columns on a virtual table. This is a known bug and is being fixed.

---

## Troubleshooting

- You're seeing only one (1) record in your virtual table even though you have more in your source table.<br />
  **Solution:** Check your source table and make sure it has primary key defined.
  
- I created a virtual table but I can't see it in "Tables".<br />
  **Solution**: Since the virtual table creation is asynchronous, you can check the status of the process in "System Jobs". Look for system jobs with a Name starting Microsoft.Wrm.DataProvider.Connector.Plugins.ConnectorGenerateVEPlugin and a "Regarding" column's value equal to the name of the new virtual table. If status is still In Progress, just wait for the job to complete. If there's an error, you can get details by clicking the system, job name hyperlink. In this example, table creation is still pending:

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-table-creation-pending.png" alt-text="table creation pending":::

   Here, table creation failed due to 429 "Too Many Requests" error:

   :::image type="content" source="media/ve-table-creation-failed-429-error.png" alt-text="table creation failed due to 429 error":::

- Table creation's system job succeeded but I'm getting runtime errors related to invalid or missing columns<br />
  **Solution**: If a failure occurs while creating a table's field, the table creation process won't fail and try to continue with the remaining fields. This is because we don't want to block the virtual table creation when some column types are unsupported. To get details on the error, you can enable logging in **Administration**> **System Settings** > **Customizations** > **Enable logging to plug-in trace log**, then delete the virtual table and try to create it again.

### See also

[Developers Guide: Get started with virtual tables (entities)](../../developer/data-platform/virtual-entities/get-started-ve.md)
