---
title: Camera control in Power Apps
description: Learn about the details, properties and examples of the camera control in Power Apps.
author: chmoncay
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom: canvas
ms.date: 01/07/2021
ms.author: chmoncay
ms.reviewer: tapanm
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
---

# Camera control in Power Apps

A control that enables users to take pictures using the camera on a device.

## Description

Use the **Camera** control to capture pictures with a device's camera. The device must have a camera and the user must authorize the app to use the camera.

The most recently captured picture is available through the **Photo** property. With this property, the images can be:

- **Viewed with the Image control.** Use the [Image](control-image.md) control to view the captured image. For more information, see the [examples](#examples).  
- **Temporarily put in a variable or a collection.**  Use the [Set](../functions/function-set.md) or [Collect](../functions/function-clear-collect-clearcollect.md) functions to store images in a variable or a collection.  Use caution when using multiple images in a collection at the same time consuming device's limited memory. Use the [SaveData](../functions/function-savedata-loaddata.md) and [LoadData](../functions/function-savedata-loaddata.md) functions to move images to the local storage on the device and for [offline scenarios](../offline-apps.md).
- **Stored in a database.**  Use the [Patch](../functions/function-patch.md) function to store images in a database.
- **Transmitted as a base64 encoded text string.**  Use the [JSON](../functions/function-json.md) function to base64 encode images.

Use the **Stream**, **StreamRate**, and **OnStream** properties to automatically capture images on a timer, for example snapping a picture every minute to create a time-lapse sequence.

Captured media is referenced by a text string URI. For more information, read the [data type documentation](../functions/data-types.md#uris-for-images-and-other-media).

Images generated by the camera control aren't usually in the full resolution of the camera. If you need full resolution images, use the [Add picture](control-add-picture.md) control.

> [!NOTE]
> The camera control is only supported on Microsoft Edge, Chrome, Firefox, and Opera browsers; and Android and iOS devices. All other browsers and platforms will show a warning that some features of the app won't work.

## Key properties

**AvailableDevices** – Table of the available cameras on the device.

Table contains two columns: 
- *Id* number to be used with the **Camera** property 
- *Name* provided by the device to identify the camera. Some platforms may include *Front* or *Back* to help locate the camera.

*Note*: Not all devices in the table may be usable in your app.  Some may be specialized drivers or applications intended for specific purposes.  

**Camera** – The numeric ID of the camera to use.  Helpful on devices with more than one camera.  

**OnStream** – How the app responds when the **Stream** property is updated.

**Photo** – The image captured when the user takes a picture. 

**Stream** – Automatically updated image based on the **StreamRate** property.

**StreamRate** – How often to update the image on the **Stream** property, in milliseconds. This value can range from 100 (1/10th of a second) to 3,600,000 (1 hour).

## Additional properties

[AccessibleLabel](properties-accessibility.md) – Label for screen readers. Should describe the purpose of taking a picture.

[BorderColor](properties-color-border.md) – The color of a control's border.

[BorderStyle](properties-color-border.md) – Whether a control's border is **Solid**, **Dashed**, **Dotted**, or **None**.

[BorderThickness](properties-color-border.md) – The thickness of a control's border.

**Brightness** – How much light the user is likely to perceive in an image.

**Contrast** – How easily the user can distinguish between similar colors in an image.

[DisplayMode](properties-core.md) – Whether the control allows user input (**Edit**), only displays data (**View**), or is disabled (**Disabled**).

[FocusedBorderColor](properties-color-border.md) – The color of a control's border when the control is focused.

[FocusedBorderThickness](properties-color-border.md) – The thickness of a control's border when the control is focused.

[Height](properties-size-location.md) – The distance between a control's top and bottom edges.

[OnSelect](properties-core.md) – How the app responds when the user taps or clicks a control.

[TabIndex](properties-accessibility.md) – Keyboard navigation order compared to other controls.

[Tooltip](properties-core.md) – Explanatory text that appears when the user hovers over a control.

[Visible](properties-core.md) – Whether a control appears or is hidden.

[Width](properties-size-location.md) – The distance between a control's left and right edges.

[X](properties-size-location.md) – The distance between the left edge of a control and the left edge of its parent container or screen.

[Y](properties-size-location.md) – The distance between the top edge of a control and the top edge of the parent container or screen.

## Examples

For these examples, you'll need a device with a camera. To test your app, use a web cam accessible from your browser. Or by saving your app and loading it into an iOS or Android device with a camera.

### Simple display of a captured picture

1. [Add](../add-configure-controls.md) a **Camera** control.

1. Authorize the app to use device's camera if prompted.

1. Add an [**Image**](../controls/control-image.md) control.

1. Set the **Image** property of the **Image** control to the following formula:

    ```powerapps-dot
    Camera1.Photo
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > Replace camera control name *Camera1* as appropriate.

1. Press F5 to preview your app.

1. Take a picture by selecting or tapping the camera control. You should see the result in your image control.

### Add pictures to an Image gallery control

1. Add a **Camera** control, name it **MyCamera**, and set its [OnSelect](properties-core.md) property to this formula:

    ```powerapps-dot
    Collect( MyPix, MyCamera.Photo )
    ```

    For more information:

    - [How to add, name, and configure a control?](../add-configure-controls.md)
    - Read more about [Collect](../functions/function-clear-collect-clearcollect.md) function or [other functions](../formula-reference.md).

1. Press F5, and then take a picture by selecting or tapping **MyCamera**.

1. Add a [Vertical gallery](control-gallery.md) control. And then resize its [Image](control-image.md) control, its template, and the **Image gallery** control itself to fit in the screen.

1. Set the [Items](properties-core.md) property of the **Image gallery** control to this formula:
 
    ```powerapps-dot
    MyPix
    ```

1. Set the [Image](properties-visual.md) property of the **Image** control in the gallery to this formula:

    ```powerapps-dot   
    ThisItem.Url
    ```

    The picture that you took appears in the **Image gallery** control.

1. Take as many pictures as you want, and then return to the default workspace by pressing Esc.

1. (optional) Set the **OnSelect** property of the **Image** control in the **Image gallery** control to the formula:

    ```powerapps-dot
    Remove( MyPix, ThisItem )
    ```

1. Press F5, and then select a picture to remove it.

Use the [SaveData](../functions/function-savedata-loaddata.md) function to save the pictures locally or the [Patch](../functions/function-patch.md) function to update a data source.

### Change the active camera from a drop down

1. [Add](../add-configure-controls.md) a **Camera** control.

1. Authorize the app to use device's camera if prompted.
    
1. [Add](../add-configure-controls.md) a [Drop down](control-drop-down.md) control.

1. Set the **Items** property of the dropdown to:

    ```powerapps-dot
    Camera1.AvailableDevices
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
      > Replace camera control name *Camera1* as appropriate.
    
1. Set **Camera** property of the camera to: 

    ```powerapps-dot
    Dropdown1.Selected.Id
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
      > Replace dropdown control name *Dropdown1* as appropriate.

1. Press F5, and then select an item from the dropdown to change the camera.

## Accessibility guidelines

The camera control shows camera feed and also functions as a button that takes a picture. So, there are similar accessibility considerations as with buttons.

### Video alternatives

Consider adding an alternative form of input for users with visual disabilities. For example, [Add picture](control-add-picture.md) to allow users to upload an image from their device.

### Color contrast

There must be adequate color contrast between [FocusedBorderColor](properties-color-border.md) and the outside color.

### Screen reader support

[AccessibleLabel](properties-accessibility.md) must be present.

### Keyboard support

- [TabIndex](properties-accessibility.md) must be zero or greater so that keyboard users can navigate to it.

- Focus indicators must be clearly visible. Use [FocusedBorderColor](properties-color-border.md) and [FocusedBorderThickness](properties-color-border.md) to update the visibility of focus indicators.

### See also

[Limitations of controls in Power Apps](../control-limitations.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]