powerapps-docs/maker/canvas-apps/controls/control-richtexteditor.md, before:

---
title: Rich text editor control in Power Apps
description: Learn about the details, properties and examples of the Rich text editor control in Power Apps.
author: chmoncay
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: canvas
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.date: 05/24/2018
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: chmoncay
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
contributors:
  - tapanm-msft
  - chmoncay
---
# Rich text editor control in Power Apps
Allows end users to format text inside a WYSIWYG editing area.  Output format is HTML.

## Description
The **Rich text editor** control provides the app user a WYSIWYG editing area for formatting text.  Control's input and output format is HTML.

Control allows copied rich text (i.e from web browser or Word) to be pasted into the control.  

Control's intended use is to format text and does not guarantee to preserve the integrity of the input HTML.  All script, style, object and other potentially compromising tags will be removed by the editor.  This means that if rich text was created outside of Power Apps, it may not look the same as in the product where it was created.

Currently supported features include:
- Bold, Italic, Underline
- Text color, highlight Color
- Text Size
- Numbered lists, bullet lists
- Hyperlinks
- Clear formatting

To use the control inside a form, select the "Edit multi-line text" card, and customize it by inserting the RTE control.

## Key properties
**[Default](properties-core.md)** – Input property for the initial text value shown in editor.

**HtmlText** – Output property for the resulting rich text in HTML format.


## Additional properties
**[AccessibleLabel](properties-accessibility.md)** – Label for screen readers. Should describe the purpose of the attachments.

**[DisplayMode](properties-core.md)** – Whether the control allows adding and deleting files (**Edit**), only displays data (**View**), or is disabled (**Disabled**).

**EnableSpellCheck** – Whether the browser spell checker is enabled. Note that the this functionality will provide spell checking only in the default language of the browser.  Power Apps for Windows doesn't support this property.

**[Height](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between a control's top and bottom edges.

**[TabIndex](properties-accessibility.md)** – Keyboard navigation order in relation to other controls.

**[Visible](properties-core.md)** – Whether a control is visible or hidden.

**[Width](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between a control's left and right edges.

**[X](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between the left edge of a control and the left edge of its parent container (or screen, if no parent container).

**[Y](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between the top edge of a control and the top edge of the parent container (or screen, if no parent container).


## Accessibility guidelines
### Screen reader support
* **[AccessibleLabel](properties-accessibility.md)** must be present.

### Keyboard support
* **[TabIndex](properties-accessibility.md)** must be zero or greater so that keyboard users can navigate to it.

> [!TIP]
> Use **Alt+0** while the editor is focused to learn about other keyboard shortcuts.


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Clarify how tab cycling works for RTE toolbar
Users normally expect Tab/Shift+Tab keys to cycle between elements. Since the toolbar of the Rich Text Editor does not "loop" navigation, we have to document this behavior.

powerapps-docs/maker/canvas-apps/controls/control-richtexteditor.md, after:

---
title: Rich text editor control in Power Apps
description: Learn about the details, properties and examples of the Rich text editor control in Power Apps.
author: chmoncay
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: canvas
ms.reviewer: tapanm
ms.date: 05/24/2018
ms.subservice: canvas-maker
ms.author: chmoncay
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
contributors:
  - tapanm-msft
  - chmoncay
---
# Rich text editor control in Power Apps
Allows end users to format text inside a WYSIWYG editing area.  Output format is HTML.

## Description
The **Rich text editor** control provides the app user a WYSIWYG editing area for formatting text.  Control's input and output format is HTML.

Control allows copied rich text (i.e from web browser or Word) to be pasted into the control.  

Control's intended use is to format text and does not guarantee to preserve the integrity of the input HTML.  All script, style, object and other potentially compromising tags will be removed by the editor.  This means that if rich text was created outside of Power Apps, it may not look the same as in the product where it was created.

Currently supported features include:
- Bold, Italic, Underline
- Text color, highlight Color
- Text Size
- Numbered lists, bullet lists
- Hyperlinks
- Clear formatting

To use the control inside a form, select the "Edit multi-line text" card, and customize it by inserting the RTE control.

## Key properties
**[Default](properties-core.md)** – Input property for the initial text value shown in editor.

**HtmlText** – Output property for the resulting rich text in HTML format.


## Additional properties
**[AccessibleLabel](properties-accessibility.md)** – Label for screen readers. Should describe the purpose of the attachments.

**[DisplayMode](properties-core.md)** – Whether the control allows adding and deleting files (**Edit**), only displays data (**View**), or is disabled (**Disabled**).

**EnableSpellCheck** – Whether the browser spell checker is enabled. Note that the this functionality will provide spell checking only in the default language of the browser.  Power Apps for Windows doesn't support this property.

**[Height](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between a control's top and bottom edges.

**[TabIndex](properties-accessibility.md)** – Keyboard navigation order in relation to other controls.

**[Visible](properties-core.md)** – Whether a control is visible or hidden.

**[Width](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between a control's left and right edges.

**[X](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between the left edge of a control and the left edge of its parent container (or screen, if no parent container).

**[Y](properties-size-location.md)** – The distance between the top edge of a control and the top edge of the parent container (or screen, if no parent container).


## Accessibility guidelines
### Screen reader support
* **[AccessibleLabel](properties-accessibility.md)** must be present.

### Keyboard support
* **[TabIndex](properties-accessibility.md)** must be zero or greater so that keyboard users can navigate to it.

> [!TIP]
> Use **Alt+0** while the editor is focused to learn about other keyboard shortcuts.

> [!NOTE]
> When the toolbar is focused, **Tab** and **Shift+Tab** keys will navigate between toolbar groups. But you can't cycle back from the last group to the first group and vice-versa.

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
