powerapps-docs/maker/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview of creating apps | Microsoft Docs
description: Overview of creating apps in either canvas or model-driven mode and incorporating the Microsoft Dataverse
author: alaug
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: intro-internal
ms.date: 01/07/2021
ms.author: alaug
ms.reviewer: tapanm-msft
searchScope:
  - "Power Apps"
---

# Overview of creating apps in Power Apps

Power Apps is a high-productivity development platform for business apps, and has four major components:

- Canvas apps
- Model-driven apps
- Portals
- Microsoft Dataverse

Let's learn more about each of these.

## Canvas apps

[Canvas apps](canvas-apps/getting-started.md) start with your user experience, crafting a highly tailored interface with the power of a blank canvas and connecting it to your choice of more than 200 data sources. You can build canvas apps for web, mobile, and tablet applications.

Canvas apps give you the flexibility to arrange the user experience and interface the way you want it. Allow your creativity and business sense to guide how you want your apps to look and feel.

You can start to build your app from Microsoft tools where your data lives, such as:

- [From a SharePoint list](canvas-apps/app-from-sharepoint.md#create-an-app-from-within-sharepoint-online)
- [From a Power BI dashboard](canvas-apps/embed-powerapps-powerbi.md)

Creating a canvas app is easy; with Power Apps, you can find or create your app in several ways:

- [From data](canvas-apps/app-from-sharepoint.md)
- [From a sample](canvas-apps/open-and-run-a-sample-app.md)
- [From a Dataverse source](canvas-apps/data-platform-create-app.md)
- [From a blank canvas](canvas-apps/data-platform-create-app-scratch.md)
- [Via AppSource](../user/app-source.md)

> [!NOTE]
> In addition to creating apps in Power Apps, you can now create apps directly within Microsoft Teams using Power Apps. More information: [Create apps in Microsoft Teams by using Power Apps](/powerapps/teams/create-apps-overview).

## Model-driven apps

[Model-driven apps](model-driven-apps/model-driven-app-overview.md) start with your data model – building up from the shape of your core business data and processes in the Dataverse to model forms, views, and other components. Model-driven apps automatically generate great UI that is responsive across devices. 

When you create a model-driven app, you can use all of the power of the Dataverse to rapidly configure your forms, business rules, and process flows. You create a model-driven app from the Power Apps site.

Getting started with model-driven apps is simple, and you can begin with these topics:

- [Create an app](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-app)
- [Create and design forms](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-design-forms)
- [Create or edit views](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-views)
- [Create or edit a system chart](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-system-chart)
- [Create or edit dashboards](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-dashboards)
- [Add security](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/manage-access-apps-security-roles)
- [Add business logic](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/guide-staff-through-common-tasks-processes)

## Portals

[Portals](portals/overview.md) help you create external-facing websites that allow users outside your organization to sign in with a wide variety of identities, create and view data in Dataverse, or even browse content anonymously.

Use these topics to quickly get started with portals:

- [Create a starter portal](/powerapps/maker/portals/create-portal)
- [About the portal lifecycle](/powerapps/maker/portals/admin/portal-lifecycle)
- [Portal authentication](/powerapps/maker/portals/configure/configure-portal-authentication)
- [Power BI integration for portals](/powerapps/maker/portals/admin/set-up-power-bi-integration)
- [Azure integration for portals](/powerapps/maker/portals/enable-azure-storage)

## Dataverse

[Dataverse](data-platform/data-platform-intro.md) is the data platform that comes with Power Apps and allows you to store and model business data. It's the platform on which Dynamics 365 apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Customer Service, Field Service, Marketing, and Project Service Automation) are built. If you’re a Dynamics 365 customer, your data is already in Dataverse.

Dataverse allows you to securely store and manage data within a set of standard and custom *tables*, and you can add columns to those tables when you need them.

Getting started with Dataverse is easy. For example, you can start with these items:

- [Create a custom table](data-platform/data-platform-create-entity.md)
- [Manage columns](data-platform/data-platform-manage-fields.md)
- [Create custom choices](data-platform/custom-picklists.md)
- [Create a business rule](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-business-rules-recommendations-apply-logic-form)

## Planning a Power Apps app or project

It's easy to try building out your first app. Simply sign-in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com). For more information, go to [Sign in to Power Apps for the first time](canvas-apps/intro-maker-portal.md). If you're interested in exploring even more functionality, like creating environments, we have a [30 day trial](signup-for-powerapps.md) or [developer plan](developer-plan.md).

If you are new to Power Apps, and want to learn about how to convert your ideas into a fully working solution using Power Apps, start with [Planning a Power Apps project](/powerapps/guidance/planning/introduction).


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Copy edits to Creating apps overview

powerapps-docs/maker/index.md, after:

---
title: Start building apps | Microsoft Docs
description: Get an introduction to creating canvas or model-driven apps in Power Apps, and incorporating the Microsoft Dataverse.
author: alaug
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.custom: intro-internal
ms.date: 01/07/2021
ms.author: alaug
ms.reviewer: tapanm-msft
searchScope:
  - "Power Apps"
---

# Overview of creating apps in Power Apps

Power Apps is a high-productivity development platform for business apps, and has four major components:

- Canvas apps
- Model-driven apps
- Portals
- Microsoft Dataverse

Let's learn more about each of these.

## Canvas apps

[Canvas apps](canvas-apps/getting-started.md) start with your user experience, crafting a highly tailored interface with the power of a blank canvas and connecting it to your choice of more than 200 data sources. You can build canvas apps for web, mobile, and tablet applications.

Canvas apps give you the flexibility to arrange the user experience and interface the way you want it. Allow your creativity and business sense to guide how you want your apps to look and feel.

You can start to build your app from Microsoft tools where your data lives, such as:

- [From a SharePoint list](canvas-apps/app-from-sharepoint.md#create-an-app-from-within-sharepoint-online)
- [From a Power BI dashboard](canvas-apps/embed-powerapps-powerbi.md)

Creating a canvas app is easy. With Power Apps, you can find or create your app in several ways:

- [From data](canvas-apps/app-from-sharepoint.md)
- [From a sample](canvas-apps/open-and-run-a-sample-app.md)
- [From a Dataverse source](canvas-apps/data-platform-create-app.md)
- [From a blank canvas](canvas-apps/data-platform-create-app-scratch.md)
- [Via AppSource](../user/app-source.md)

> [!NOTE]
> In addition to creating apps in Power Apps, you can now create apps directly within Microsoft Teams using Power Apps. More information: [Create apps in Microsoft Teams by using Power Apps](/powerapps/teams/create-apps-overview).

## Model-driven apps

[Model-driven apps](model-driven-apps/model-driven-app-overview.md) start with your data model – building up from the shape of your core business data and processes in the Dataverse to model forms, views, and other components. Model-driven apps automatically generate great UI that's responsive across devices. 

When you create a model-driven app, you can use all the power of the Dataverse to rapidly configure your forms, business rules, and process flows. You create a model-driven app from the Power Apps site.

Getting started with model-driven apps is simple. You can begin by reading these topics:

- [Create an app](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-app)
- [Create and design forms](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-design-forms)
- [Create or edit views](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-views)
- [Create or edit a system chart](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-system-chart)
- [Create or edit dashboards](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-edit-dashboards)
- [Add security](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/manage-access-apps-security-roles)
- [Add business logic](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/guide-staff-through-common-tasks-processes)

## Portals

[Portals](portals/overview.md) help you create external-facing websites that allow users outside your organization to sign in with a wide variety of identities, create and view data in Dataverse, or even browse content anonymously.

Use these topics to quickly get started with portals:

- [Create a starter portal](/powerapps/maker/portals/create-portal)
- [About the portal lifecycle](/powerapps/maker/portals/admin/portal-lifecycle)
- [Portal authentication](/powerapps/maker/portals/configure/configure-portal-authentication)
- [Power BI integration for portals](/powerapps/maker/portals/admin/set-up-power-bi-integration)
- [Azure integration for portals](/powerapps/maker/portals/enable-azure-storage)

## Dataverse

[Dataverse](data-platform/data-platform-intro.md) is the data platform that comes with Power Apps and allows you to store and model business data. It's the platform on which Dynamics 365 apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Customer Service, Field Service, Marketing, and Project Service Automation) are built. If you’re a Dynamics 365 customer, your data is already in Dataverse.

Dataverse allows you to securely store and manage data within a set of standard and custom tables, and you can add columns to those tables when you need them.

Start working with Dataverse by reading these topics:

- [Create a custom table](data-platform/data-platform-create-entity.md)
- [Manage columns](data-platform/data-platform-manage-fields.md)
- [Create custom choices](data-platform/custom-picklists.md)
- [Create a business rule](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/customize/create-business-rules-recommendations-apply-logic-form)

## Planning a Power Apps app or project

It's easy to begin building out your first app. Simply sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com). For more information, go to [Sign in to Power Apps for the first time](canvas-apps/intro-maker-portal.md). If you're interested in exploring even more functionality, such as creating environments, we have a [30-day trial](signup-for-powerapps.md) or [Developer Plan](developer-plan.md).

If you're new to Power Apps and want to learn about how to convert your ideas into a fully working solution, start with [Planning a Power Apps project](/powerapps/guidance/planning/introduction).


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
