powerapps-docs/learning-catalog/administrator.md, before:

---
title: Administrator learning catalog
description: Find all the training options for Power Apps administrators
author: MargoC
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 04/28/2020
ms.service: powerapps
ms.author: margoc
---

# Administrators learning catalog

Do you need to keep systems and data flowing, provisioned, and secure round-the-clock?

The following catalog is organized from core knowledge to specific domains, and from most basic to most advanced. If content exists in multiple formats, we'll let you know, so that you can choose the training format that best meets your needs.

## Administration
| Content  | Description  | Format   | Length    | 
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| [Manage permissions and administration for Microsoft Dataverse](/learn/paths/manage-permissions-administration-common-data-service/)|	Do you need to manage user access rights? In this learning path you will learn how to manage permissions associated with environments and entities. You will also learn about different administrative portals and how to access each.|	Free self-paced online learning path	|1 hr 23 min |
| [Admin in a day lab](https://github.com/microsoft/powerapps-tools/tree/master/Administration/AdminInADay)                                      | Lab instructions for training event or self paced, hands on labs and material for ILT | Free, Instructor Led | Workday   |
| [Customer Admin Dashboard description](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/custom-admin-dashboard-with-the-powerapps-admin-connectors/) | Blog post about Customer Admin Dashboard   | Blog post   | 


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Updates from modery for learning catalogs

powerapps-docs/learning-catalog/administrator.md, after:

---
title: Administrator learning catalog
description: Find all the training options for Power Apps administrators
author: MargoC
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 04/28/2020
ms.service: powerapps
ms.author: margoc
---

# Administrators learning catalog

Do you need to keep systems and data flowing, provisioned, and secure round-the-clock?

The following catalog is organized from core knowledge to specific domains, and from most basic to most advanced. If content exists in multiple formats, we'll let you know, so that you can choose the training format that best meets your needs.

## Administration

| Content  | Description  | Format   | Length    |
|----------|--------------|----------|-----------|
| [Manage permissions and administration for Dataverse](/learn/paths/manage-permissions-administration-common-data-service/)| Do you need to manage user access rights? In this learning path, you will learn how to manage permissions associated with environments and entities. You will also learn about different administrative portals and how to access each.| Free self-paced online learning path |1 hr 57 min |
| [Work with Microsoft Power Platform tenants, environments, subscriptions, and Dynamics 365 apps](/learn/paths/implementing-customer-engagement-apps/)| Create, design, and administer Microsoft Power Platform tenants and instances including planning for multi-instance deployments, managing authentication methods, managing updates, backup and restore instances, install and manage Microsoft Dynamics 365 clients for end-users, and authorizing access to different features for all users in the organization.| Free self-paced online learning | 5 hr |
| [Use the Admin center to manage environments and data policies in Power Automate](/learn/modules/administer-flows/)| Tenant and environment admins use the Power Automate Admin center to manage data policies and environments for Power Automate deployments. | Free self-paced online learning path | 36 min |
| [Admin in a day lab](https://github.com/microsoft/powerapps-tools/tree/master/Administration/AdminInADay) | Lab instructions for training event or self paced, hands on labs and material for ILT | Free, Instructor Led | Workday |
| [Customer Admin Dashboard description](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/custom-admin-dashboard-with-the-powerapps-admin-connectors/) | Blog post about Customer Admin Dashboard   | Blog post   | |

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
