powerapps-docs/learning-catalog/app-maker.md, before:

---
title: App Maker learning catalog
description: Find all the training options for Power Apps
author: loreleishannonmsft
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/25/2020
ms.service: powerapps
ms.author: margoc
---

# App Maker Learning Catalog

Are you interested in quickly creating custom business apps without writing code? 

The following catalog is organized from core knowledge to specific domains, and from most basic to most advanced. If content exists in multiple formats, we'll let you know, so that you can choose the training format that best meets your needs. 

## Get started<a name="get-started"></a>
| Content   | Description  | Format  | Length    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
| [Introduction to Power Apps](/learn/modules/introduction-power-apps/)                                              | Learn about the value and capabilities of Power Apps, and ways other organizations have leveraged this technology to build simple applications for their business.                                             | Free, self-paced online learning path | 18 minutes         |
| [Automate a business process using Power Automate](/learn/paths/automate-process-power-automate/)                 | This learning path introduces you to Power Automate, teaches you how to build workflows, and how to administer flows.                                                                                        | Free, self-paced online learning path | 3 hours 11 minutes |
| [Tutorial: Create a business process flow to standardize processes](/power-automate/create-business-process-flow) | This tutorial shows you how to create a business process flow with Power Apps.                                                                                                                               | Free, self-paced online learning path | 14 minutes to read |
| [Create a canvas app in Power Apps](/learn/paths/create-powerapps/)                                               | Do you want to create apps to help make your business more efficient? Then this path is for you. It introduces you to Power Apps, helps you create and customize an app, and then manage and distribute it. | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 11 min        |
| [Create a model-driven application in Power Apps](/learn/paths/create-app-models-business-processes/)             | This learning path introduces you to creating a model-driven app in Power Apps that uses Microsoft Dataverse.                                                                                                | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 35 min        |
| [Power Apps Top innovation   areas   ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFuQ1R8IJis&feature=youtu.be&t=4936)                         | Demo from a summit                                                                                                | Video, free                           | 10 minutes  |
## App Creation<a name="app-creation"></a>
| Content   | Description  | Format  | Length    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
| [Introducing Button Flows](/power-automate/introduction-to-button-flows)                                                             | There are many repetitive tasks that we all wish we could run with just a tap of a button. For example, you may need to quickly email your team to remind them to join the daily team sync, or you may want to start a new Visual Studio Codespaces build of your code base after you've been notified that there are no more checkins planned for the day. Button flows allow you to accomplish these and many other tasks simply by tapping a button on your mobile device. | Free, self-paced online learning path | 5 minutes to read |
| [Manage permissions and administration for Dataverse](/learn/paths/manage-permissions-administration-common-data-service/) | Do you need to manage user access rights? In this learning path, you will learn how to manage permissions associated with environments and entities. You will also learn about different administrative portals and how to access each.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 1 hr 23 min       |
| [Master advanced techniques for Power Apps canvas apps](/learn/paths/understand-advanced-topics/)                                    | Do you want to make sure your app is the best it can be? This learning path will help you use advanced formulas and perform custom updates. It will also focus on performance checks and testing.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 30 min       |
| [Use advanced data options and connectors in Power Apps](/learn/paths/advanced-data-options-and-connectors/)                         | Do you want to improve the user's experience in your canvas app? Do you want to use custom connectors to connect to data? This learning path will help you do both things. It will also focus on working with data source limits.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 21 min       |
| [Use basic formulas to make better Power Apps canvas apps](/learn/paths/use-basic-formulas-powerapps-canvas-app/)                    | Do you want to use formulas to improve functionality and change a behavior in your Power Apps canvas app? This learning path can help you accomplish your goal. | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 16 min       |
| [Use the UI and controls in a canvas app in Power Apps](/learn/paths/ui-controls-canvas-app-powerapps/)                              | The app user experience often defines the success of your app. This learning path will focus on how to provide the best app navigation, and build the best UI using themes, icons, images, personalization, different form factors, and controls.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 1 hr 58 min       |
| [Work with data in a Power Apps canvas app](/learn/paths/work-with-data-in-a-canvas-app/)                                            | Do you need to connect an app to access data? Then this learning path is for you. It will focus on how to connect to data sources. It also will show you how to use filtering, conditions, and other functions to shape your data and write data to your data source.   | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 14 min       |
| [AIAD App in a   day](https://aka.ms/appinaday)                                                                         | Full instructor and atendee packadge to learn Power Apps                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Instructor Led Trianing               | Workday     |
| [Formula reference for Power   Apps](../maker/canvas-apps/formula-reference.md)    | Glossarry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Free                                  | Reference   |
## Flow Creation<a name="flow-creation"></a>
| Content   | Description  | Format  | Length    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
| [Flow in a   day](https://aka.ms/flowinaday)                                                                           | Full instructor and atendee packadge to learn Flow | Free, Instructor Led | Workday   |


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Fixed Typos in AIAD & Flow in a Day details
Updated typos under App Creation - AIAD App in a day row: changed atendee to attendee; packadge to package; Trianing to Training

Updated typos under Flow Creation - Flow in a Day row: changed atendee to attendee; packadge to package

powerapps-docs/learning-catalog/app-maker.md, after:

---
title: App Maker learning catalog
description: Find all the training options for Power Apps
author: loreleishannonmsft
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/25/2020
ms.service: powerapps
ms.author: margoc
---

# App Maker Learning Catalog

Are you interested in quickly creating custom business apps without writing code? 

The following catalog is organized from core knowledge to specific domains, and from most basic to most advanced. If content exists in multiple formats, we'll let you know, so that you can choose the training format that best meets your needs. 

## Get started<a name="get-started"></a>
| Content   | Description  | Format  | Length    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
| [Introduction to Power Apps](/learn/modules/introduction-power-apps/)                                              | Learn about the value and capabilities of Power Apps, and ways other organizations have leveraged this technology to build simple applications for their business.                                             | Free, self-paced online learning path | 18 minutes         |
| [Automate a business process using Power Automate](/learn/paths/automate-process-power-automate/)                 | This learning path introduces you to Power Automate, teaches you how to build workflows, and how to administer flows.                                                                                        | Free, self-paced online learning path | 3 hours 11 minutes |
| [Tutorial: Create a business process flow to standardize processes](/power-automate/create-business-process-flow) | This tutorial shows you how to create a business process flow with Power Apps.                                                                                                                               | Free, self-paced online learning path | 14 minutes to read |
| [Create a canvas app in Power Apps](/learn/paths/create-powerapps/)                                               | Do you want to create apps to help make your business more efficient? Then this path is for you. It introduces you to Power Apps, helps you create and customize an app, and then manage and distribute it. | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 11 min        |
| [Create a model-driven application in Power Apps](/learn/paths/create-app-models-business-processes/)             | This learning path introduces you to creating a model-driven app in Power Apps that uses Microsoft Dataverse.                                                                                                | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 35 min        |
| [Power Apps Top innovation   areas   ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFuQ1R8IJis&feature=youtu.be&t=4936)                         | Demo from a summit                                                                                                | Video, free                           | 10 minutes  |
## App Creation<a name="app-creation"></a>
| Content   | Description  | Format  | Length    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
| [Introducing Button Flows](/power-automate/introduction-to-button-flows)                                                             | There are many repetitive tasks that we all wish we could run with just a tap of a button. For example, you may need to quickly email your team to remind them to join the daily team sync, or you may want to start a new Visual Studio Codespaces build of your code base after you've been notified that there are no more checkins planned for the day. Button flows allow you to accomplish these and many other tasks simply by tapping a button on your mobile device. | Free, self-paced online learning path | 5 minutes to read |
| [Manage permissions and administration for Dataverse](/learn/paths/manage-permissions-administration-common-data-service/) | Do you need to manage user access rights? In this learning path, you will learn how to manage permissions associated with environments and entities. You will also learn about different administrative portals and how to access each.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 1 hr 23 min       |
| [Master advanced techniques for Power Apps canvas apps](/learn/paths/understand-advanced-topics/)                                    | Do you want to make sure your app is the best it can be? This learning path will help you use advanced formulas and perform custom updates. It will also focus on performance checks and testing.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 30 min       |
| [Use advanced data options and connectors in Power Apps](/learn/paths/advanced-data-options-and-connectors/)                         | Do you want to improve the user's experience in your canvas app? Do you want to use custom connectors to connect to data? This learning path will help you do both things. It will also focus on working with data source limits.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 21 min       |
| [Use basic formulas to make better Power Apps canvas apps](/learn/paths/use-basic-formulas-powerapps-canvas-app/)                    | Do you want to use formulas to improve functionality and change a behavior in your Power Apps canvas app? This learning path can help you accomplish your goal. | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 16 min       |
| [Use the UI and controls in a canvas app in Power Apps](/learn/paths/ui-controls-canvas-app-powerapps/)                              | The app user experience often defines the success of your app. This learning path will focus on how to provide the best app navigation, and build the best UI using themes, icons, images, personalization, different form factors, and controls.  | Free, self-paced online learning path | 1 hr 58 min       |
| [Work with data in a Power Apps canvas app](/learn/paths/work-with-data-in-a-canvas-app/)                                            | Do you need to connect an app to access data? Then this learning path is for you. It will focus on how to connect to data sources. It also will show you how to use filtering, conditions, and other functions to shape your data and write data to your data source.   | Free, self-paced online learning path | 2 hr 14 min       |
| [AIAD App in a   day](https://aka.ms/appinaday)                                                                         | Full instructor and attendee package to learn Power Apps                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Instructor Led Training               | Workday     |
| [Formula reference for Power   Apps](../maker/canvas-apps/formula-reference.md)    | Glossarry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Free                                  | Reference   |
## Flow Creation<a name="flow-creation"></a>
| Content   | Description  | Format  | Length    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
| [Flow in a   day](https://aka.ms/flowinaday)                                                                           | Full instructor and attendee package to learn Flow | Free, Instructor Led | Workday   |


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
