---
title: Set up mobile offline for canvas apps 
description: Learn how to set up canvas apps for use offline on mobile devices in Microsoft Power Apps.
ms.date: 03/13/2024
ms.topic: how-to
ms.subservice: mobile
ms.component: pa-user
author: trdehove
ms.author: trdehove
ms.reviewer: sericks
search.audienceType: 
  - enduser
searchScope:
  - "Power Apps"
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Set up mobile offline for canvas apps


Turn on offline mode in your canvas app if users need to work without worrying about their Internet connection.

## Prerequisites

- [The canvas app must be in a solution](../maker/canvas-apps/add-app-solution.md).

- [Explicit column selection](../maker/canvas-apps/efficient-calculations.md) must be turned on. To enable the feature, open a canvas app for editing and then go to **Settings** > **Upcoming features** > **Preview**. Set the **Explicit column selection** toggle to **On**.

- You must have the Environment Maker, System Administrator, or System Customizer role to set up offline mode for canvas apps. These roles have create, read, write, delete, and share privileges on `Canvas App` and `Mobile offline profile` tables. [Learn about predefined security roles](../maker/model-driven-apps/share-model-driven-app.md#about-predefined-security-roles).

- Users with Basic User role can't open an offline application. You must create a custom security role with read privileges on `Canvas App` and `Mobile offline profile` tables.

- If you already have a custom security role, make sure it grants read privileges on `Canvas App` and `Mobile offline profile` tables. [Learn about miscellaneous privileges](/power-platform/admin/miscellaneous-privileges).

## Optimize your app for mobile offline

Mobile apps run on small screens with limited connectivity. Before you set up offline mode, make sure your canvas app is optimized for offline and mobile use. Consider the user scenarios you want to cover and the amount of data the app uses. Create an app that's simple and lightweight.

Follow these best practices when you build an app for mobile offline use:

- Performance is critical when you run an app on mobile. For more information on to create performant canvas apps, see [Overview of creating performant apps](../maker/canvas-apps/create-performant-apps-overview.md).
    
- Identify the on-the-go scenarios that are functionally related, such as tasks that are performed by users who work in the field.

- Reduce the complexity of your app by limiting the number of tables that need to be downloaded. Sometimes it's better to have two apps instead of one.

- Use views that are optimized for the experience rather than displaying a large set of data. For example, it's preferable to use the **My active accounts** view, rather than the **All accounts** view.

## Turn on offline capability for tables

Tables that your offline-first app uses must have offline capability turned on. Some built-in tables have it by default. Some tables can't be used offline. However, you can turn on offline capability for any new, custom table.

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com?utm_source=padocs&utm_medium=linkinadoc&utm_campaign=referralsfromdoc).
1. In the left side panel, select **Tables**.
1. Select a table, and then select **Edit**.
1. Select **Edit table properties**.
1. Select **Advanced options**, and then scroll to the **Rows in this table** section.
1. Select **Can be taken offline**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/can-be-taken-offline.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the table editing options, with **Can be taken offline** highlighted.":::
1. Select **Save**.

## Turn on offline capability for your app

1. In [Power Apps studio](../maker/canvas-apps/power-apps-studio.md), in the left side panel, select **Apps**.
1. Select your canvas app, and then select **Edit**.
1. Select **Settings**.
1. Select **General**.
1. Turn on the **Can be used offline** option.
1. Select an offline profile. You have two options:

    - Use an autogenerated profile. This setting downloads the tables that are used in your app and is the recommended option.
    - [Create a custom profile](#create-a-mobile-offline-profile), select the **Refresh** icon to see your new profile in the list, and then select it.

        If you don't see the **Can be used offline** option, make sure the app is [in a solution](../maker/canvas-apps/add-app-solution.md).

1. Close the **Settings** window, and then save and publish your app.

A [page that's based on the **Offline** template](#create-an-offline-canvas-app) is automatically inserted in the app. The page contains an icon that uses the [Connection](/power-platform/power-fx/reference/signals#connection) Power Fx function to reflect the app's [offline sync status](canvas-mobile-offline-working.md#sync-status-icons). You can use it as-is or customize it, as appropriate.

> [!NOTE]
> If you're turning on offline capability for a brand-new canvas app, make sure the default first screen is based on the **Offline** template.

## Create a mobile offline profile

If the automatically generated offline profile doesn't meet your needs, create your own. [Learn about guidelines for offline profiles](mobile-offline-guidelines.md).

You need to publish your new offline profile before you can select it in your canvas app's settings. If you edit and publish an offline profile, you must also publish any canvas apps that use it.

### Create an offline profile (with admin rights)

1. Sign in to the [Power Platform admin center](https://admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/) using an admin account.

1. In the left side panel, select **Environments**.

1. Select an environment, and then select **Settings**.

1. Expand **Users + permissions**, and then select **Mobile configuration**.

1. Select **Create new profile**.

1. Enter a name and description, and then select **Create**.

1. After the profile is created, select it to continue editing it.

1. In the **Data available offline** section, select **Add table**.

1. Select a table from the list. Only tables that can be set for offline use appear in the list.

1. Select **Next**.

1. Select a filter based on the [table's ownership type](../maker/common-data-service/types-of-entities.md).

    | Table ownership type | Available filter options for data download |
    |----------------------|-------------------------|
    | User or team | <ul><li>**Download related rows only**: Make the table's related data available offline. If you don't set any relationships, no rows in this table are available.</br></li></br><li>**All rows**: Make all rows in this table available offline.</br></li></br><li>**Other data filter**: Make only the specified rows in this table available offline. Select from the following options:</br></br><ul><li>**Download user rows**: Make only your rows available offline.</br></li></br><li>**Download team rows**: Make your team's rows available offline.</br></li></br><li>**Download my business unit's rows**: Make your business unit's rows available offline.</br></li></br></ul></li></ul> |
    | Organization | <ul><li>**Download related rows only**: Make the table's related data available offline. If you don't set any relationships, no rows for this table are available.</br></li></br><li>**All rows**: Make all rows in this table available offline.</br></li></ul> |
    | Business | <ul><li>**Download related data only**: Make the table's related data available offline. If you don't set any relationships, no rows for this table are available.</br></li></br><li>**All rows**: Make all rows in this table available offline.</br></li><br><li>**Other rows**: Make only the specified rows in this table available offline. Select the following option:</br></blockquote></br><ul><li>**Download my business unit's rows**: Make your business unit's rows available offline.</br></li></ul></li></ul> |
    | None | <ul><li>**Download related rows only**: Make the table's related data available offline. If you don't set any relationships, no rows for this table are available.</br></li></ul> |

    If you select **Custom**, you can define a custom filter up to three levels deep with the following rules.

    |Rules                      |  &nbsp;                      |  &nbsp;                 |
    |-------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------|
    | equal                         | not equal                  | gt – greater than              |
    | ge – greater than or equal to | le – less than or equal to | lt – less than                 |
    | like                          | not-like                   | in                             |
    | not-in                        | null                       | not-null                       |
    | eq-userid                     | ne-userid                  | eq-userteams                   |
    | eq-useroruserteams            | eq-useroruserhierarchy     | eq-useroruserhierarchyandteams |
    | eq-businessid                 | ne-businessid              | eq-userlanguage                |
    | begins-with                   | not-begin-with             | ends-with                      |
    | not-end-with                  |                            |                                |

1. In the **Include \[table name\] records related to these tables** section, select the related table relationships. You must have added the table that you want to create the relationship with. For example, if you want to add a relationship between the `Account` and `Contact` tables, then you need to add both tables to the mobile offline profile.

    For example, if you select **Contact \| Field name: Primary Contact**, then for every contact, the system also downloads the account that's related to it.

    :::image type="content" source="media/include-account-records.png" alt-text="Screenshot of edit options for the Account table, with Include Account records related to these tables highlighted.":::

1. Select **Save**.

### Create an offline profile (without admin rights)

If your Power Apps account doesn't have admin rights, you can still create a mobile offline profile. Coming soon, you'll be able to create an offline profile directly in Power Apps Studio. Until then, use this workaround.

1. Create a model-driven app in your test environment that uses the same tables as your canvas app.
2. [Set up the model-driven app for offline use](setup-mobile-offline.md).
3. [Generate a default profile](setup-mobile-offline.md#generate-a-default-profile) and [add tables with filters](setup-mobile-offline.md#add-a-table-to-an-offline-profile-and-apply-filters).
4. Publish the model-driven app.
5. Select the offline profile in your canvas app.

## Create an offline canvas app

To make it easier to create or convert a canvas app for offline use, we created the **Offline** template. The template includes a globe icon in the navigation bar that shows the connectivity and sync state, putting offline at the center of the experience. Users always know whether their device and data are ready to go.

A new page created from the **Offline** template is automatically inserted as soon as you turn on the offline capability in your canvas app.

:::image type="content" source="media/new-page.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a page based on the Offline template shown in the Power Apps Studio canvas.":::

You can also add a new page based on the **Offline** template the same way you add pages from any other template.
  
:::image type="content" source="media/offline-template.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Templates gallery, with the Offline template highlighted.":::

The globe icon in the template's navigation bar uses different icons depending on the value of the Power Fx `Connection.Sync` function. You can create your own icon and set the **Icon** property using the following Power Fx script:

```powerappsfl
Switch(Connection.Sync, 

   ConnectionSync.Connected, Icon.Globe,  

   ConnectionSync.ConnectedWithWarning, Icon.GlobeWarning, 

   ConnectionSync.ConnectedPendingUpsync, Icon.GlobeChangesPending, 

   ConnectionSync.ConnectedError, Icon.GlobeError, 

   ConnectionSync.ConnectedRefresh, Icon.GlobeRefresh, 

   ConnectionSync.NotConnected, Icon.GlobeNotConnected,  

   ConnectionSync.NotConnectedWithWarning, Icon.GlobeWarning, 

   ConnectionSync.NotConnectedPendingUpsync, Icon.GlobeChangesPending, 

   ConnectionSync.NotConnectedSyncError, Icon.GlobeError) 
```
You can set the **OnSelect** property using the Power Fx function `ShowHostInfo` to show the [Device status page](/power-apps/mobile/offline-sync-icon#device-status-page) when selecting the globe icon. 

```powerappsfl
ShowHostInfo(HostInfo.OfflineSync)
```
You can set the **Visible** property using the Power Fx function `Host` to only show the globe icon when the app is used on a player that is supporting the offline mode. 

```powerappsfl
Host.OfflineEnabled
```
## How to get the best of the offline built-in canvas? 
Use the following recommendations to create a faster user experience for specific scenarious. 

 |Scenario                      |  Approach that is not recommended                     |  Recommended approach               |
 |-------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------|
 | Show related tables' information in a gallery. | Use a look-up to fetch the data. | Use a view containing the column of the related table.|
 | Create a filterable gallery with a lot of records.  | Load the records from Dataverse and store them in a collection. Set the items of the fallery to the filtered collection.  | Directly set the items of the gallery to the Dataverse-filtered data. |
 | Update multiple records. | Loop the records and patch them individually. | Bulk patch a collection containing all the modifications. |

    
## Export a solution that contains a canvas app enabled for offline

When you export a solution with an offline canvas app, you also need export the offline profile for the app, as it is a dependency of the app.

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com) and in the left navigation pane, select **Solutions**.
2. Select the solution that you want to export and then select **Edit**.
3. Select the canvas app that is enabled for offline and then select **Advanced** > **Add required objects**.

Make sure that the associated offline profile is in the solution and then you can export it.  

## Limitations and known issues

- The autogenerated offline profile doesn't handle filters. As a result, for each table used in the app, it downloads *all* rows to which the user has permissions.

- Non-Dataverse connectors like Sharepoint aren't supported in offline mode.

- Items in a gallery may appear in a different order in an offline-capable app if no [sort order](/power-platform/power-fx/reference/function-sort) is selected. Choose a sort order in the gallery control to make sure the app behaves consistently in mobile apps and web browsers.

- Many-to-many relationships aren't supported in offline mode.

- [Learn about Power Fx language capabilities and limitations](canvas-mobile-offline-overview.md).

- [Learn about other mobile offline capabilities and limitations](offline-capabilities.md).
