---

title: Mobile offline limitations for canvas apps
description: Learn about the limitations for canvas apps that use mobile offline.
author: trdehove
ms.component: pa-user
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 05/13/2024
ms.subservice: mobile
ms.author: trdehove
ms.reviewer: sericks
ms.assetid: 
search.audienceType: 
  - enduser
searchScope:
  - "Power Apps"
---

# Mobile offline limitations for canvas apps

Before you set up the mobile app in offline mode, be sure to read through the following limitations. We recommend that you also review the [Best practices to use an app for offline](best-practices-offline.md) and how to [Optimize the offline profile](mobile-offline-guidelines).

## Limitations and known issues

- a **canvas app not in a solution** cannot be enabled for offline

- The offline-first feature **works for standalone canvas apps only**. It doesn't work for [embedded canvas apps](../maker/model-driven-apps/embed-canvas-app-in-form.md) or [custom pages](../maker/model-driven-apps/model-app-page-overview.md).

- The offline-first feature works with Dataverse tables only and doesn't support the following Power Fx functions:
   - **Relate**
   - **Unrelate**
   - **UpdateIf**
   - **RemoveIf**
 
- **Filter on column lookup** only supports one level of lookup when the app is enabled for offline.

- **Many-to-many relationships** aren't supported in offline mode.
 
- **Non-Dataverse connectors** like Sharepoint aren't supported in offline mode.

- **Virtual Tables** aren't not supported in offline mode

- **Calculated and rollup fields** - Calculated and rollup fields that are part of rows synced to the client aren't reevaluated by the client. The reevaluation happens on the server when the updated row is synced.

- **Mapped fields** - When you run an app in offline mode, mapped fields aren’t prepopulated when you create a new record from a table that has fields mapped to another table.

- an **Offline profile** cannot be used in 2 canvas apps.

- if the **same offline profile** is used in a canvas app and in a model-driven app, it will create 2 separate local DBs. 
 
- The **autogenerated offline profile** doesn't handle filters. As a result, for each table used in the app, it downloads *all* rows to which the user has permissions.

- Items in a gallery may appear in a **different order** in an offline-capable app if no [sort order](/power-platform/power-fx/reference/function-sort) is selected. Choose a sort order in the gallery control to make sure the app behaves consistently in mobile apps and web browsers.

- Data can only be synced regularly when Power Apps is running in the foreground of your device, with the screen unlocked. (See [sync-data-offline-background](sync-data-offline-background.md)
