powerapps-docs/user/collaboration.md, before:

---
title: "Collaborate with others in model-driven apps| MicrosoftDocs"
description: Collaborate with others in model-driven apps
author: mduelae
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.component: pa-user
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/03/2021
ms.subservice: end-user
ms.author: mkaur
ms.custom: ""
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.assetid: 
search.audienceType: 
  - enduser
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Collaborate with others in model-driven apps (preview)

[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]

Collaborate with colleagues and share links in model-driven Power Apps the same way do you as in Microsoft Office.

> [!NOTE]
> - This is currently a preview feature. Your system administrator needs to turn on the **Collaboration** feature in your enviroment. For information, see [Manage feature settings](/power-platform/admin/settings-features.md).
> - During the preview period, these features are only available in the **Opportunity**, **Account**, **Contact**, and **Case** tables that are in customer engagement apps such as [Dynamics 365 Sales](/dynamics365/sales-professional/help-hub.md), [Dynamics 365 Customer Service](/dynamics365/customer-service/help-hub.md) or stand-alone Power Apps.


### Multiplayer apps
When you're working on a record such as an **Opportunity**, **Account**, **Contact**, or **Case** you can also see other users that are working on the same record.

You can also select a user's picture to see their online status, send them an email, or start a Teams chat.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![View a user's online status.](media/collob-1.png "View a user's online status")


### View a user's status and picture

App users, such as the record owner, are displayed with their picture and online status.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![VView a user's online status.](media/collob-2.png "View a user's online status")

> [!NOTE]
> This feature will be extended to user lookups and grid user columns. 


### Share 

Easily share direct links with others. Select **Share** > **Copy link** and then paste the link in another app to share it.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Share row information with soneone else.](media/collob-2.png "Share row information with soneone else")

Commit message:

Filip 3
Fixed third image
Copy link in Sharing will not work initially, reflected that.

powerapps-docs/user/collaboration.md, after:

---
title: "Collaborate with others in model-driven apps| MicrosoftDocs"
description: Collaborate with others in model-driven apps
author: mduelae
manager: kvivek
ms.service: powerapps
ms.component: pa-user
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/03/2021
ms.subservice: end-user
ms.author: mkaur
ms.custom: ""
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.assetid: 
search.audienceType: 
  - enduser
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Collaborate with others in model-driven apps (preview)

[This topic is pre-release documentation and is subject to change.]

Collaborate with colleagues and share links in model-driven Power Apps the same way do you as in Microsoft Office.

> [!NOTE]
> - This is currently a preview feature. Your system administrator needs to turn on the **Collaboration** feature in your enviroment. For information, see [Manage feature settings](/power-platform/admin/settings-features.md).
> - During the preview period, these features are only available in the **Opportunity**, **Account**, **Contact**, and **Case** tables that are in customer engagement apps such as [Dynamics 365 Sales](/dynamics365/sales-professional/help-hub.md), [Dynamics 365 Customer Service](/dynamics365/customer-service/help-hub.md) or stand-alone Power Apps.


### Multiplayer apps
When you're working on a record such as an **Opportunity**, **Account**, **Contact**, or **Case** you can also see other users that are working on the same record.

You can also select a user's picture to see their online status, send them an email, or start a Teams chat.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![View a user's online status.](media/collob-1.png "View a user's online status")


### View a user's status and picture

App users, such as the record owner, are displayed with their picture and online status.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![VView a user's online status.](media/collob-2.png "View a user's online status")

> [!NOTE]
> This feature will be extended to user lookups and grid user columns. 


### Share 

Easy sharing of direct links with others will be enabled during the preview period.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Share row information with soneone else.](media/collob-3.png "Share row information with soneone else")
