---
title: Visualize data in a view with Copilot
description: Learn how to visualize your data in a view using Copilot in Power Apps.
ms.date: 01/22/2025
ms.topic: article
ms.subservice: end-user
author: sriharibs-msft
ms.author: srihas
reviewer: shwetamurkute
ms.reviewer: smurkute
ms.component: pa-user
ms.collection: 
    - bap-ai-copilot 
search.audienceType: 
  - enduser
---

# Visualize data in a view with Copilot

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This is a preview feature.
> Preview features aren’t meant for production use and might have restricted functionality. These features are subject to [supplemental terms of use](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2189520), and are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.

## Prerequisites

- Copilot assistance is available for all model-driven apps on the web where the [modern, refreshed look](modern-fluent-design.md) is turned on.

- Your administrator must enable **Allow AI to generate charts to visualize the data in a view** setting in Power Platform Admin Center.

## Visualize data in a view

Copilot enables you to visualize the data in the view in the form of a chart to help you understand trends, patterns and relations in your data easily. The visualization is interactive, based on the visible columns in the view, and can be personalized to support further data exploration.

To use this Copilot visualization, your administrator must enable it. For more information on how to enable Copilot visualization, see [Manage feature settings](/power-platform/admin/settings-features).

When you navigate to a grid page, you can see the **Visualize** option on top of the page.

:::image type="content" source="media/visualize-data-button.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows Visualize button on the page.":::

When you select **Visualize**, Copilot generates a visualization for the view considering the visible columns and the filters. The visualization is a chart aggregating the data in the view, and it appears side by side with the grid, complementing the table of rows.

:::image type="content" source="media/visualize-data-chart.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing data visualization in the form of a chart on the page.":::

You can select **Explain** to view a short AI-generated reasoning for the visualization that Copilot chose for this view. You can hover over the chart to examine data points or select chart elements to drill into the data. 

:::image type="content" source="media/visualize-data-chart-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing data visualization in the form of a chart on the page.":::

The grid automatically filters the rows to match the selected area of the chart. Selecting the same area of the chart again toggles the selection and removes the filter.

:::image type="content" source="media/visualize-data-chart-details2.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing data visualization after area selection and corresponding data.":::

You can personalize the chart generated by Copilot using the drop-down that shows the selected chart and eight other chart types.

:::image type="content" source="media/visualize-data-chart-details3.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing drop-down option with selected chart and eight other chart types.":::

If you add or remove columns from the view, Copilot automatically regenerates the chart by considering the updated set of columns for the visualization. If you add or remove filters, Copilot automatically refreshes the chart without changing the visualization.

:::image type="content" source="media/visualize-data-chart-detail-annotations.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing detailed options present in the chart.":::

Legend

- **Chart title**: AI-generated title for the chart based on the data and columns visualized.
- **Explain**: AI-generated reasoning for the visualization that Copilot chose for this view.
- **Chart selector**: List of nine supported chart types – Pie, Donut, Bar, Column, Clustered Bar, Stacked Bar, Clustered Column, Stacked Column and Line.
- **Refresh**: Select **Refresh** to see the latest data behind the chart without changing chart type.
- **Expand**: Select **Expand** to expand the chart to full screen for a better view of the chart area.
- **Close**: Select **Close** to close the chart pane.
- **Copy**: Select **Copy** to copy the chart as a PNG file to the clipboard.
- **Feedback**: Select **Thumbs up** or **Thumbs Down** to provide feedback about the feature.

To provide feedback about the feature, select the thumbs up or down button on the chart pane, and provide detailed comments to help improve the feature.

## Related information

[Manage feature settings](/power-platform/admin/settings-features)  
[Responsible AI FAQ about Copilot visualizations on a view](/power-apps/maker/common/faq-visualize-view)   
