---
title: Draft well-written, input text with Copilot (preview)
description: Learn how to use Copilot to quickly generate well-written text that can be used in text boxes in apps made with Power Apps.
ms.date: 01/15/2025
ms.custom: 
  - responsible-ai-faqs
ms.topic: how-to
ms.component: pa-user
ms.subservice: end-user
author: jordanchodak
ms.author: jordanchodak
ms.reviewer: smurkute
ms.collection: 
    - bap-ai-copilot 
search.audienceType: 
  - enduser
---

# Draft well-written input text with Copilot (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

You can use Copilot to quickly generate well-written text to use as input text in text boxes in canvas apps. Using Copilot saves time because you won’t have to worry about creating text that flows well and meets grammar rules. Copilot is especially helpful for users who are using apps that aren’t in their native language.

When trying to quickly input text into multiline text boxes or rich text editors in a canvas app, you might worry about forming complete sentences and having grammatically correct text. With the assistance of Copilot, you can quickly write a prompt to generate content or jot down some ideas and have Copilot refine the grammar and flow. You can also change the tone and length of the output to fit the scenario.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - To use this feature, your environment must be in a region with GPU (graphics processing unit) capacity, or your tenant must have the **Move data across regions** checkbox selected. Learn more: [Turn on copilots and generative AI features](/power-platform/admin/geographical-availability-copilot)
> - To use this feature, the browser language must be US English.
> - This capability is powered by [Azure OpenAI Service](/azure/cognitive-services/openai/overview).
> - This capability may be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling.
> - Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.
> - For more information about the preview, go to our [preview terms](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2189520).

## Generate content using Copilot by writing prompt

1. Insert your cursor into a blank multiline text box or rich text editor in a canvas app.
2. The option to **Draft with Copilot**  should appear along with some optional prompt starters. If you choose **Draft with Copilot**, you'll see a blank prompt box. If you select one of the prompt starters, it will populate in the prompt box to help you get started. Select one of these options.
3. Insert text into the text box. You can jot down a prompt to generate content.

     > [!Note]
     > You must enter the text in English. This feature only supports the English language at this time.
4. Select the **Generate** button.
5. Copilot generates well-written text for you. Review the text. The following options are available:
    - If you want Copilot to suggest shorter or longer text, select **Adjust** icon and then select the appropriate length. Then select the **Refresh** icon to regenerate the output.
    - If you want Copilot to suggest text that has a different tone, select **Adjust** icon and then select the appropriate tone. Then select the **Refresh** icon to regenerate the output.
    - If you want Copilot to suggest different text, select the **Refresh** icon.
    - If you're satisfied with the text that Copilot suggested, select **Keep it** to enter the text in the text box.
  
## Rewrite content generated by Copilot

1. Insert your cursor into a multiline text box or rich text editor in a canvas app that contains text. If it doesn't, jot down some ideas in the box.
2. The option to **Rewrite my text** should appear. Select this option.
3. Copilot generates well-written text for you. Review the text. The following options are available:
    - If you want Copilot to suggest is shorter or longer text, select **Adjust** icon and then select the appropriate length. Then select the **Refresh** icon to regenerate the output.
    - If you want Copilot to suggest text that has a different tone, select **Adjust** icon and then select the appropriate tone. Then select the **Refresh** icon to regenerate the output.
    - If you want Copilot to suggest different text, select the **Refresh** icon.
    - If you're satisfied with the text that Copilot suggested, select **Replace** to replace the content currently in the text box or **Insert Below** to avoid overwriting the text in the box and instead, insert the generated text below it.
  
## Turn off text assistance in web player

You can turn off text assistance for an app or an environment using a PowerShell cmdlet.

> [!NOTE]
> - When using PowerShell cmdlets, you must use Power Apps admin PowerShell module version 2.0.179 or later. More information: [Get started using the Power Apps admin module](/powershell/powerapps/get-started-powerapps-admin).
> - If an admin has turned off this feature at the environment-level, this feature isn't available for any apps in that environment.
> - The PowerShell cmdlets might take up to two hours to take effect.

### Turn off text assistance for an app
You can turn off this setting for an app through the maker portal.
1. In the app list, select the three dots to the right of the app that you want to change the setting for.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. Turn off the switch titled **Text assistance in the web player (preview)**.

You can also use a PowerShell cmdlet to turn off this setting for an app.

To turn off for an app using PowerShell:

```powershell
Set-PowerAppSettings -AppName 'AppName' -DraftingCopilotEnabled $false
```

### Turn off text assistance for an environment

To turn off text assistance for a specific environment, use the following cmdlet.

```powershell
Set-AdminPowerAppEnvironmentCopilotSettings -EnvironmentName 'EnvironmentName' -AppDraftingCopilotEnabled $false
```

## Known issue

- You might see "There was a problem using this description. Try again." error. This error occurs because of the following possibilities:
  - You've reached capacity limits. In this case, try again after some time.
  - You've not provided enough information to properly generate output. In this case, add more details to try again.
- There isn't a way to disable this feature on a per-tenant basis.  The methods listed in this document can disable it.

## Related information

[Quickly generate well-written text with Copilot (video)](https://youtu.be/XY1sWTi4nl8?feature=shared)
