powerapps-docs/developer/data-platform/developer-tools.md, before:

---
title: "Developer tools and resources (Microsoft Dataverse) | Microsoft Docs" 
description: "Learn about available tools and resources when working with solutions."
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 03/18/2021
ms.reviewer: "pehecke"
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: "article"
author: "shmcarth" # GitHub ID
ms.subservice: dataverse-developer
ms.author: "jdaly" # MSFT alias of Microsoft employees only
manager: "ryjones" # MSFT alias of manager or PM counterpart
search.audienceType: 
  - developer
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---

# Developer tools and resources

[!INCLUDE[cc-terminology](includes/cc-terminology.md)]

Developers will use the following tools and resources when working with solutions using Microsoft Dataverse.

## Tools available for download from NuGet

The following tools are distributed in NuGet packages. The [Developer Guide: Download tools from NuGet](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/download-tools-nuget) topic includes a PowerShell script you can use to download and extract the latest versions of these tools.

|Tool  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|Code Generation tool `CrmSvcUtil.exe`|A command-line code generation tool that generates early-bound .NET Framework classes that represent the Entity Data Model used by the Organization service. <br />More information: <br />[Organization service](work-with-data.md#organization-service)<br />[Create early bound table classes with the Code Generation tool](org-service/generate-early-bound-classes.md)|
|Configuration Migration tool `DataMigrationUtility.exe`|Used to move configuration data across environments. Configuration data is used to define custom functionality  and is typically stored in custom tables. This tool is not designed to move business data. <br /> More information: [Dataverse Administrator Guide: Move configuration data across instances and organizations with the Configuration Migration tool](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/admin/manage-configuration-data)|
|Package Deployer `PackageDeployer.exe`|Used to deploy packages on Dataverse environments. A package is an installable unit that includes solutions. <br /> More information: <br />[Deploy packages](/power-platform/admin/deploy-packages-using-package-deployer-windows-powershell)<br />[Create packages for the Package Deployer](/power-platform/alm/package-deployer-tool)|
|Plug-in Registration tool `PluginRegistration.exe`|A tool used to subscribe .NET assembly plug-in classes to data transaction events. <br />More information: <br />[Create a plug-in](apply-business-logic-with-code.md#create-a-plug-in)<br />[Register a plug-in](register-plug-in.md)|
|SolutionPackager tool `SolutionPackager.exe`|A tool that can reversibly decompose a Dataverse compressed solution file into multiple XML files and other files so that these files can be easily managed by a source control system.<br /> More information: <br />[Team development](/power-platform/alm/team-development-alm)<br />[Use the SolutionPackager tool to compress and extract a solution file](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/compress-extract-solution-file-solutionpackager)|

## .NET SDK Assemblies

The following are assemblies .NET developers can use. The latest versions are available to download in the corresponding NuGet packages.

### Work with data

Use these assemblies to interact with the Organization service and Discovery services.

More information: [Use the Dataverse Organization service](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/use-microsoft-dynamics-365-organization-service)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.CoreAssemblies](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.CoreAssemblies/)

|Assembly  |Namespaces  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Crm.Sdk.Proxy.dll|[Microsoft.Crm.Sdk](/dotnet/api/microsoft.crm.sdk)<br />[Microsoft.Crm.Sdk.Messages](/dotnet/api/microsoft.crm.sdk.messages)|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Client](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.client)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Discovery](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.discovery)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Messages](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.messages)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Metadata](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.metadata)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Metadata.Query](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.metadata.query)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Organization](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.organization)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Query](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.query)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.WebServiceClient](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.webserviceclient)|

### Create Process Designer (workflow) extensions

Use this assembly to add custom activities to the Process Designer.

More information [Custom workflow activities (workflow assemblies)](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/custom-workflow-activities-workflow-assemblies)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.Workflow](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.Workflow/) 

|Assembly|Namespaces|
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.workflow)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow.Activities](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.workflow.activities)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow.Designers](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.workflow.designers)|

### Build windows client applications

Use these assemblies to facilitate connecting to the Organization service and to build Microsoft Windows client applications.

More information [Build Windows client applications using the XRM tools](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/build-windows-client-applications-xrm-tools)

**NuGet Packages**:
- [Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.CoreAssembly](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.CoreAssembly/) (Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.dll)
- [Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.WpfControls](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.WpfControls/) 

|Assembly|Namespaces  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.connector)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.Model](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.connector.model)|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.Model](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol.model)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.Properties](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol.properties)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.Utility](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol.utility)|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.WebResourceUtility.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.WebResourceUtility](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.webresourceutility)|

### Create packages

Use these assemblies to create packages for the Package Deployer tool.

More information: [Create packages for the Package Deployer](/power-platform/alm/package-deployer-tool)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.PackageDeployment](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.PackageDeployment/)

|Assembly|Namespace  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.PackageDeployment.CrmPackageExtentionBase.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.PackageDeployment.CrmPackageExtentionBase](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.packagedeployment.crmpackageextentionbase)|

### Create Custom virtual table data providers

Use this assembly to create custom virtual table data providers.

More information: [Get started with virtual tables](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/virtual-entities/get-started-ve)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.Data](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.Data/)

|Assembly  |Namespaces  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.CodeGen](/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.codegen)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Converters](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.converters)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Exceptions](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.exceptions)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Expressions](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.expressions)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Infra](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.infra)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Mappings](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.mappings)|

### Extend Outlook Client

Use this assembly to interact with Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Outlook and Microsoft Dataverse for Microsoft Office Outlook with Offline Access.

More information: [Extend Dynamics 365 for Outlook](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/extend-customer-engagement-outlook)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.Outlook](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.Outlook/)

|Assembly|Namespace|
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Crm.Outlook.Sdk.dll|[Microsoft.Crm.Outlook.Sdk](/dotnet/api/microsoft.crm.outlook.sdk)|

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Some content and TOC changes
To make developer tools easier to find.

powerapps-docs/developer/data-platform/developer-tools.md, after:

---
title: "Developer tools and resources (Microsoft Dataverse) | Microsoft Docs" 
description: "Learn about available tools and resources when working with solutions."
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 03/18/2021
ms.reviewer: "pehecke"
ms.service: powerapps
ms.topic: "article"
author: "shmcarth" # GitHub ID
ms.subservice: dataverse-developer
ms.author: "jdaly" # MSFT alias of Microsoft employees only
manager: "ryjones" # MSFT alias of manager or PM counterpart
search.audienceType: 
  - developer
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---

# Developer tools and resources

[!INCLUDE[cc-terminology](includes/cc-terminology.md)]

Developers will use the following tools and resources when working with solutions using Microsoft Dataverse.

## Integrated Development Environment (IDE) extensions

 Power Platform Tools for Visual Studio supports the rapid creation and deployment of plug-ins and custom workflow activities, integration technologies like Azure Service endpoints and webhooks, and more. To learn more about the tool, [install](tools/devtools-install.md) the extension and try the available [quickstart](tools/devtools-create-project.md) topics.

## Tools available for download from NuGet

The following tools are distributed in NuGet packages. The [Developer Guide: Download tools from NuGet](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/download-tools-nuget) topic includes a PowerShell script you can use to download and extract the latest versions of these tools.

|Tool  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|Code Generation tool `CrmSvcUtil.exe`|A command-line code generation tool that generates early-bound .NET Framework classes that represent the Entity Data Model used by the Organization service. <br />More information: <br />[Organization service](work-with-data.md#organization-service)<br />[Create early bound table classes with the Code Generation tool](org-service/generate-early-bound-classes.md)|
|Configuration Migration tool `DataMigrationUtility.exe`|Used to move configuration data across environments. Configuration data is used to define custom functionality  and is typically stored in custom tables. This tool is not designed to move business data. <br /> More information: [Dataverse Administrator Guide: Move configuration data across instances and organizations with the Configuration Migration tool](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/admin/manage-configuration-data)|
|Package Deployer `PackageDeployer.exe`|Used to deploy packages on Dataverse environments. A package is an installable unit that includes solutions. <br /> More information: <br />[Deploy packages](/power-platform/admin/deploy-packages-using-package-deployer-windows-powershell)<br />[Create packages for the Package Deployer](/power-platform/alm/package-deployer-tool)|
|Plug-in Registration tool `PluginRegistration.exe`|A tool used to subscribe .NET assembly plug-in classes to data transaction events. <br />More information: <br />[Create a plug-in](apply-business-logic-with-code.md#create-a-plug-in)<br />[Register a plug-in](register-plug-in.md)|
|SolutionPackager tool `SolutionPackager.exe`|A tool that can reversibly decompose a Dataverse compressed solution file into multiple XML files and other files so that these files can be easily managed by a source control system.<br /> More information: <br />[Team development](/power-platform/alm/team-development-alm)<br />[Use the SolutionPackager tool to compress and extract a solution file](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/compress-extract-solution-file-solutionpackager)|

## .NET SDK Assemblies

The following are assemblies .NET developers can use. The latest versions are available to download in the corresponding NuGet packages.

### Work with data

Use these assemblies to interact with the Organization service and Discovery services.

More information: [Use the Dataverse Organization service](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/use-microsoft-dynamics-365-organization-service)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.CoreAssemblies](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.CoreAssemblies/)

|Assembly  |Namespaces  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Crm.Sdk.Proxy.dll|[Microsoft.Crm.Sdk](/dotnet/api/microsoft.crm.sdk)<br />[Microsoft.Crm.Sdk.Messages](/dotnet/api/microsoft.crm.sdk.messages)|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Client](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.client)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Discovery](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.discovery)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Messages](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.messages)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Metadata](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.metadata)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Metadata.Query](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.metadata.query)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Organization](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.organization)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Query](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.query)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.WebServiceClient](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.webserviceclient)|

### Create Process Designer (workflow) extensions

Use this assembly to add custom activities to the Process Designer.

More information [Custom workflow activities (workflow assemblies)](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/custom-workflow-activities-workflow-assemblies)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.Workflow](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.Workflow/) 

|Assembly|Namespaces|
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.workflow)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow.Activities](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.workflow.activities)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Workflow.Designers](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.workflow.designers)|

### Build windows client applications

Use these assemblies to facilitate connecting to the Organization service and to build Microsoft Windows client applications.

More information [Build Windows client applications using the XRM tools](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/build-windows-client-applications-xrm-tools)

**NuGet Packages**:
- [Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.CoreAssembly](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.CoreAssembly/) (Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.dll)
- [Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.WpfControls](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.WpfControls/) 

|Assembly|Namespaces  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.connector)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.Model](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.connector.model)|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.Model](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol.model)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.Properties](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol.properties)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.CrmConnectControl.Utility](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.crmconnectcontrol.utility)|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.WebResourceUtility.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.WebResourceUtility](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.webresourceutility)|

### Create packages

Use these assemblies to create packages for the Package Deployer tool.

More information: [Create packages for the Package Deployer](/power-platform/alm/package-deployer-tool)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.PackageDeployment](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.XrmTooling.PackageDeployment/)

|Assembly|Namespace  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.PackageDeployment.CrmPackageExtentionBase.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.PackageDeployment.CrmPackageExtentionBase](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.tooling.packagedeployment.crmpackageextentionbase)|

### Create Custom virtual table data providers

Use this assembly to create custom virtual table data providers.

More information: [Get started with virtual tables](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/virtual-entities/get-started-ve)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.Data](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.Data/)

|Assembly  |Namespaces  |
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.dll|[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.CodeGen](/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.codegen)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Converters](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.converters)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Exceptions](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.exceptions)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Expressions](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.expressions)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Infra](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.infra)<br />[Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Data.Mappings](/dotnet/api/microsoft.xrm.sdk.data.mappings)|

### Extend Outlook Client

Use this assembly to interact with Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Outlook and Microsoft Dataverse for Microsoft Office Outlook with Offline Access.

More information: [Extend Dynamics 365 for Outlook](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/extend-customer-engagement-outlook)

**NuGet Package**: [Microsoft.CrmSdk.Outlook](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.CrmSdk.Outlook/)

|Assembly|Namespace|
|---------|---------|
|Microsoft.Crm.Outlook.Sdk.dll|[Microsoft.Crm.Outlook.Sdk](/dotnet/api/microsoft.crm.outlook.sdk)|

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
