powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/add-page-to-model-app.md, before:

---
title: "Add a custom page to your model-driven app" 
description: " Learn how to add a custom page to a model-driven app"
ms.date: 06/29/2021
ms.reviewer: "matp"
ms.service: powerapps
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.topic: "How-to"
author: "aorth"
ms.author: "aorth"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - "PowerApps"
---
# Add a custom page to your model-driven app (preview)

[!INCLUDE [cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer](../../includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]

This article guides you through creating and editing a custom page for a model-driven app using the modern app designer.

  > [!IMPORTANT]
  > - This is a preview feature, and may not be available in all regions.
  > - [!INCLUDE[cc_preview_features_definition](../../includes/cc-preview-features-definition.md)]

## Create or edit a model-driven app using modern app designer

The following steps walk you through opening the new modern app designer, which is needed to add a custom page to a model-driven app.

### Create a new model-driven app using modern app designer

1. Sign into [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. On the left navigation pane, select **Solutions** and then open or create a solution to contain the new model-driven app.

1. Select **New** > **App** > **Model-driven app**.

1. Select **Use modern app designer**, and then select **Next**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![New model-driven app design prompt](media/add-page-to-model-app/solution-explorer-new-model-app-designer-prompt.png "New model-driven app design prompt")

1. Enter the new app's **Name**, optionally a **Description**, and then select **Create**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![New model-driven app name prompt](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-name-prompt.png "New model-driven app name prompt")

### Open an existing model-driven app using modern app designer

1. Open [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. On the left navigation pane, select **Solutions**, and then open the solution containing the existing model-driven app.

1. Open the model-driven app menu and select **Edit** > **Edit in preview** to open the modern app designer.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Open modern app designer preview](media/add-page-to-model-app/open-modern-app-designer-preview.png "Open modern app designer preview")

## Create or edit a custom page

Custom pages can be created from two places. The first is while authoring a model-driven app in the modern app designer. The other is from the **Solutions** area in Power Apps. Custom pages can be edited from the **Solutions** area but won't appear in the **Home** or **Apps** areas of make.powerapps.com.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Custom pages must be created from a solution either from the modern app designer and or the **Solutions** area in Power Apps using **New** > **Page**. The custom page is a different canvas app type than the normal standalone canvas app.

### Create new custom page from modern app designer

1. Open modern app designer.

1. Select **New page** on the command bar or on the **Pages** pane.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App designer create new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-create-new-page.png "App designer create new page")

1. Select **Custom** as the page type.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![New page select custom page](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-create-new-custom-page.png "New page select custom page")

1. The canvas app designer opens for page authoring.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Canvas designer new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/canvas-designer-new-page.png "Canvas designer new page")

1. When you're finished creating your canvas app custom page, **Save**, **Publish**, and then close the canvas app designer browser tab to return to the model-driven app designer.

### Create new custom page from the solutions area

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. Select **Solutions** from the left navigation pane, and open or create a solution to contain the new custom page

1. Select **New > App > Page**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Solutions area create new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/solution-explorer-new-page.png "Solutions area create new page")

### Edit an existing custom page

1. Open up [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. Select **Solutions** from the left navigation pane, and then open or create a solution to contain the new custom page.

1. Select the custom page with **Page** type, and then select **Edit**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Solutions area new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/solution-explorer-edit-page.png "Solutions area new page")

## Author custom page content

1. Design the custom page content. More information: [Design a custom page for your model-driven app](design-page-for-model-app.md)

1. Save and publish the custom page.

1. Close canvas app designer.

1. Return to the app designer browser tab and refresh the app designer by selecting **Dismiss**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Dismiss creating your page prompt](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-creating-page-prompt.png "Dismiss creating your page prompt")

1. Select **Publish** in the app designer to add the changed custom page into the model-driven app.

1. Select **Preview** to play the app in a new browser tab.

## Add an existing custom page into a site map

1. Sign into [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. [Open an existing model-driven app using modern app designer](#open-an-existing-model-driven-app-using-modern-app-designer)

1. Select the **Navigation** tab.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App Designer navigation pane](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-navigation-pane.png "App Designer navigation pane")

1. Expand the navigation, and then select the location to place the page.

1. Select **Add > Subarea** to add a new item after the selection.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App Designer app subarea](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-add-subarea.png "App Designer add subarea")

1. In the right property pane, select an existing  **Page** from the list, and then enter a **Title**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App Designer subarea select existing page](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-subarea-select-existing-page.png "App Designer subarea select existing page")

1. Select **Publish**, which also saves the app if there are changes.

1. Select **Play** to run the app in a new browser tab.

1. To close the app designer select **Back** and return to the solution.

<!-- ## Enabling custom page before public preview

By default custom pages are not available in the new app designer until custom page public preview.  These parameters are not needed for internal test.  
```
?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true
```

## Upcoming changes in new App Designer

* Adding custom page in app designer without being in the navigation

    * Workaround: add into sitemap which adds to both sitemap and pages collection, then remove from sitemap which leaves in the pages collection  -->

### See also

[Model-driven app custom page overview](model-app-page-overview.md)

[Design a custom page for your model-driven app](design-page-for-model-app.md)

[Using PowerFx in custom page](page-powerfx-in-model-app.md)

[Navigating to and from a custom page using client API](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/navigate-to-custom-page-examples.md)

[Code components for custom page designer](../../developer/component-framework/component-framework-for-canvas-apps.md)

Commit message:

Updated items still in public preview

powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/add-page-to-model-app.md, after:

---
title: "Add a custom page to your model-driven app" 
description: " Learn how to add a custom page to a model-driven app"
ms.date: 06/29/2021
ms.reviewer: "matp"
ms.service: powerapps
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.topic: "How-to"
author: "aorth"
ms.author: "aorth"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - "PowerApps"
---
# Add a custom page to your model-driven app (preview)

[!INCLUDE [cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer](../../includes/cc-beta-prerelease-disclaimer.md)]

This article guides you through creating and editing a custom page for a model-driven app using the modern app designer.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - The base functionality of custom pages has moved to General Availability in all regions.  However there are some specific or new capabilities that are still in public preview and are marked with _(preview)_.
> - [!INCLUDE[cc_preview_features_definition](../../includes/cc-preview-features-definition.md)] 

## Create or edit a model-driven app using modern app designer

The following steps walk you through opening the new modern app designer, which is needed to add a custom page to a model-driven app.

### Create a new model-driven app using modern app designer

1. Sign into [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. On the left navigation pane, select **Solutions** and then open or create a solution to contain the new model-driven app.

1. Select **New** > **App** > **Model-driven app**.

1. Select **Use modern app designer**, and then select **Next**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![New model-driven app design prompt](media/add-page-to-model-app/solution-explorer-new-model-app-designer-prompt.png "New model-driven app design prompt")

1. Enter the new app's **Name**, optionally a **Description**, and then select **Create**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![New model-driven app name prompt](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-name-prompt.png "New model-driven app name prompt")

### Open an existing model-driven app using modern app designer

1. Open [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. On the left navigation pane, select **Solutions**, and then open the solution containing the existing model-driven app.

1. Open the model-driven app menu and select **Edit** > **Edit in preview** to open the modern app designer.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Open modern app designer preview](media/add-page-to-model-app/open-modern-app-designer-preview.png "Open modern app designer preview")

## Create or edit a custom page

Custom pages can be created from two places. The first is while authoring a model-driven app in the modern app designer. The other is from the **Solutions** area in Power Apps. Custom pages can be edited from the **Solutions** area but won't appear in the **Home** or **Apps** areas of make.powerapps.com.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Custom pages must be created from a solution either from the modern app designer and or the **Solutions** area in Power Apps using **New** > **Page**. The custom page is a different canvas app type than the normal standalone canvas app.

### Create new custom page from modern app designer

1. Open modern app designer.

1. Select **New page** on the command bar or on the **Pages** pane.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App designer create new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-create-new-page.png "App designer create new page")

1. Select **Custom** as the page type.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![New page select custom page](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-create-new-custom-page.png "New page select custom page")

1. The canvas app designer opens for page authoring.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Canvas designer new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/canvas-designer-new-page.png "Canvas designer new page")

1. When you're finished creating your canvas app custom page, **Save**, **Publish**, and then close the canvas app designer browser tab to return to the model-driven app designer.

### Create new custom page from the solutions area

1. Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. Select **Solutions** from the left navigation pane, and open or create a solution to contain the new custom page

1. Select **New > App > Page**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Solutions area create new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/solution-explorer-new-page.png "Solutions area create new page")

### Edit an existing custom page

1. Open up [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. Select **Solutions** from the left navigation pane, and then open or create a solution to contain the new custom page.

1. Select the custom page with **Page** type, and then select **Edit**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Solutions area new page](media/add-page-to-model-app/solution-explorer-edit-page.png "Solutions area new page")

## Author custom page content

1. Design the custom page content. More information: [Design a custom page for your model-driven app](design-page-for-model-app.md)

1. Save and publish the custom page.

1. Close canvas app designer.

1. Return to the app designer browser tab and refresh the app designer by selecting **Dismiss**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Dismiss creating your page prompt](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-creating-page-prompt.png "Dismiss creating your page prompt")

1. Select **Publish** in the app designer to add the changed custom page into the model-driven app.

1. Select **Preview** to play the app in a new browser tab.

## Add an existing custom page into a site map

1. Sign into [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?cds-app-module-designer.isCustomPageEnabled=true&oneCdsDesigner.enableCustomCanvasPage=true)

1. [Open an existing model-driven app using modern app designer](#open-an-existing-model-driven-app-using-modern-app-designer)

1. Select the **Navigation** tab.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App Designer navigation pane](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-navigation-pane.png "App Designer navigation pane")

1. Expand the navigation, and then select the location to place the page.

1. Select **Add > Subarea** to add a new item after the selection.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App Designer app subarea](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-add-subarea.png "App Designer add subarea")

1. In the right property pane, select an existing  **Page** from the list, and then enter a **Title**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![App Designer subarea select existing page](media/add-page-to-model-app/app-designer-subarea-select-existing-page.png "App Designer subarea select existing page")

1. Select **Publish**, which also saves the app if there are changes.

1. Select **Play** to run the app in a new browser tab.

1. To close the app designer select **Back** and return to the solution.

### See also

[Model-driven app custom page overview](model-app-page-overview.md)

[Design a custom page for your model-driven app](design-page-for-model-app.md)

[Using PowerFx in custom page](page-powerfx-in-model-app.md)

[Navigating to and from a custom page using client API](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/navigate-to-custom-page-examples.md)

[Code components for custom page designer](../../developer/component-framework/component-framework-for-canvas-apps.md)
