powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/configure-sorting.md, before:

---
title: "Sort rows in a model-driven app view in Power Apps | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn how to sort rows in a model-driven app
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 04/17/2020
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "how-to"
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
  - "powerapps"
author: "Mattp123"
ms.assetid: 25f5aa52-56dc-4be5-884e-9346616f665f
caps.latest.revision: 25
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.author: "matp"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Sort rows in a model-driven app view

[!INCLUDE [cc-data-platform-banner](../../includes/cc-data-platform-banner.md)]

When you create or edit a view you can configure the sort order for either ascending or descending.

To change the sort order in the view designer, see [Create a public view in Power Apps](create-edit-views-app-designer.md#create-a-public-view-in-power-apps).

## Change the sort order using solution explorer

1.  Open [solution explorer](advanced-navigation.md#solution-explorer), expand **Entities**, select the table you want, select **Views**, and then open the view you want.

2.  In the view designer, select **Configure Sorting**.  

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
    > ![Configure sorting.](media/configure-sorting.png "Configure sorting")
  
3.  In the **Configure Sort Order** dialog box, in the **Sort By** list, select the column you want to sort, then select **Ascending Order** or **Descending Order**.  
  
4.  Select **OK** to close the **Configure Sort Order** dialog box. 

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Grids in Unified Interface apps take the list of displayed columns from the underlying FetchXML of the view. If the FetchXML that is returned from Microsoft Dataverse does not have a column, then that column is not displayed. This is in contrast to the classic web application, where if a column is not present in FetchXML but is in LayoutXML, such a column is automatically added to the list of displayed columns. Unified Interface apps use OData directly with FetchXML to retrieve data from the server.

## Next steps
[Create or edit a view](create-edit-views.md)
[Use FetchXML to query data](../../developer/data-platform/use-fetchxml-construct-query.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Model Driven App Updates Milestone 1

powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/configure-sorting.md, after:

---
title: "Sort rows in a model-driven app view in Power Apps | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn how to sort rows in a model-driven app
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 04/17/2020
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "how-to"
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
  - "powerapps"
author: "Mattp123"
ms.assetid: 25f5aa52-56dc-4be5-884e-9346616f665f
caps.latest.revision: 25
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.author: "matp"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Sort rows in a model-driven app view

[!INCLUDE [cc-data-platform-banner](../../includes/cc-data-platform-banner.md)]

When you create or edit a view you can configure the sort order for either ascending or descending.

To change the sort order in the view designer, see [Create a public view in Power Apps](create-edit-views-app-designer.md#create-a-public-view-in-power-apps).

## Change the sort order of a view

1.  Sign in to [Power Apps](https://make.powerapps.com/?utm_source=padocs&utm_medium=linkinadoc&utm_campaign=referralsfromdoc).  

2.  Select **Solutions**, open the solution required, select **Tables**, select the table required, and then select the **Views** tab.

3.  Select a view to open it in the view designer.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
    > ![Edit filters.](media/view-column-menu.png "Edit filters")

4.  Select a column name in the column head, and from the column menu, select **Sort A to Z** or **Sort Z to A**. The sort order is indicated in the column head with an up arrow or a down arrow.

The sort order can be changed by using the view properties panel. 

5.  If a sort order has not been set for the view, select **Sort by**, and then select the primary sort by column.

6.  To sort the view by additional columns, select **Then sort by** and then select a additional sort by column for the view.

:::image type="content" source="media/create-or-edit-model-driven-app-view/sort-view-by-multiple-columns.png" alt-text="Sorting a table view by multiple columns":::

powerapps-docs\maker\model-driven-apps\media\create-or-edit-model-driven-app-view\sort-view-by-multiple-columns.PNG

7.  To remove a sort expression, select **Remove sort expression** (the **X** button).

## Next steps

[Table views overview](create-edit-views.md)

[Edit filter criteria](edit-filter-criteria.md)

[Use FetchXML to query data](../../developer/data-platform/use-fetchxml-construct-query.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
