powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/form-component-control.md, before:

---
title: "Edit table records directly from another table’s main form | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn how to design a main form that can be used to edit a related table record.
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 08/15/2021
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "how-to"
applies_to: 
  - "PowerApps"
author: "Mattp123"
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.author: "mspilde"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - "PowerApps"
  - D365CE
---
# Edit related table records directly from another table’s main form

There are multiple ways that you can work with **related table records** on a table form within a Power App. For example, you can include related tables in read-only mode with a [quick view form](create-edit-quick-view-forms.md) and create or edit a record using a [main form in a dialog.](../../developer/model-driven-apps/customize-entity-forms.md#open-main-form-in-a-dialog-using-client-api)

Another way you can work with related table records is by adding a form component control to another table's main form. The **form component control** lets users edit information of a related table record directly from another table’s form.

For example, here's the form component on a separate tab on the main account form, which lets the user edit a contact record without leaving the account form.

:::image type="content" source="media/form-component-tab.png" alt-text="Form component control added to a separate tab.":::

For example, here's the form component on an **existing tab** on the main account form, which also lets the user edit a contact record without leaving the account form.  Notice that we remain on the summary tab.

:::image type="content" source="media/form-component-section.png" alt-text="Form component control added to an existing tab.":::

## Add the form component to a table main form

In this example, the **Contact** standard main form is configured for the form component control that’s added to the account main form.

1. Open [solution explorer](advanced-navigation.md#solution-explorer), expand **Entities**, select the table that you want, select **Forms**, and then open the main form where you want to add the form component.
1. Select the **Insert** tab. Then, create a new tab and add a new section or add a new section to an existing tab.  
1. In the new section, add a lookup column, such as the **Primary Contact** lookup column.
1. Select the lookup column, and then on the **Home** tab, select **Change Properties**.
1. On the **Controls** tab, select **Add Control**, in the list of control types select **Form Component Control**, and then select **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/form-component-control.png" alt-text="Select the Form Component Control.":::
1. Select **Web**, **Tablet**, and **Phone** for the component.
1. Select **Edit** (pencil icon) and on the **Configure Property** dialog box select **Bind to a static value** and then add an XML entry similar to this where *TableName* is the table unique name and *FormID* is the form ID for the main form:`<QuickForms><QuickFormIds><QuickFormId entityname="TableName">FormID</QuickFormId></QuickFormIds></QuickForms>`
   - For example, to render the **Contact** main form on the account form, use: `<QuickForms><QuickFormIds><QuickFormId entityname="contact">1fed44d1-ae68-4a41-bd2b-f13acac4acfa</QuickFormId></QuickFormIds></QuickForms>`

    :::image type="content" source="media/form-component-control2.png" alt-text="Configure the form component control.":::
1. Select **OK**, and then select **OK** again.
1. **Save** and then **Publish** your form.

> [!TIP]
> To find the unique name for a table, select the table in Power Apps and then select **Settings**. The **Name** appears on the **Edit** table pane.
> The form ID can be found in the browser URL when you edit a form. The ID follows the **/edit/** portion of the URL.
>  :::image type="content" source="media/form-component-formid.png" alt-text="Form ID can be found in the browser URL when you open a form in the modern form designer.":::
>
> In the classic form designer, the form ID follows the **formId%3d** portion of the URL.

## Form component behavior

This section describes form component behavior when used in a model-driven app.

### Record selection

In order for the form component control to show a form, the lookup column it is bound to needs to have a value. Otherwise, the control will show the message **Source record not selected**. One way to set the value is to add to the form a lookup control that is bound to the same lookup column as the form component control. When you use the lookup control to change the lookup column value, the form component control will show a form with the data for the new lookup column value.

### Column validation

All columns, both in the main form and in the form component controls, must be valid for data to be sent to Microsoft Dataverse. This is true for both column validation errors, missing required columns, and so on.

`OnSave` handlers are run for the main form and its form component controls. Any handler can cancel the save for the main form and the form component controls by using [preventDefault](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/save-event-arguments/preventdefault.md). This means no save operation can call `preventDefault` for data to be sent to Dataverse. The order of when the `OnSave` handlers are called is not defined. More information: [Form OnSave Event (Client API reference) in model-driven apps](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/events/form-onsave.md)

### Record save

Once the validation stage is passed, data is sent to Dataverse for each record. Currently, each record is updated independently with different requests. The saves are not transactional, and the order of the saves isn't defined. An error saving one form component will not roll back changes to the main form or other form components. After each save is complete, data is refreshed for all the records on the form.

### Notifications

Notifications on the form component are aggregated into the notifications of the main form. For instance, if there are invalid columns in the form component and you try to save, the invalid column notification will appear at the top of the main form rather than in the form component.

### Error handling

If there are multiple errors during save, only one error will be shown to the user. If the user can make changes to fix the first error and saves the next error will be visible.  The user will need to continue saving until all errors have been resolved.

### Changing records with unsaved changes

If there are unsaved changes in a form for a form component and a user tries to change the lookup column the form component is bound to, the user will be alerted about this change.

### Client API

A [form context](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/clientapi-form-context.md) is available for the form component control. It can be accessed via the main form's form context by accessing the control via an API, such as [getControl](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/controls/getControl.md). Before you access data for the related table in the form component control, event handlers should wait for the [isLoaded API](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/formContext-ui-quickForms/isLoaded.md) for the control to return true.

## Limitations

Note the following limitations when you add the form component control to a table form:

- The form component control only supports rendering main forms. Similarly, support for adding a form component control is only supported with main forms. Other form types, such as quick create, quick view, and card aren't supported.

- Forms with a business process flow aren’t currently supported in either the main table form or the related table form. If you have a form with a business process flow, you may encounter unexpected behavior.  We recommend that you do not use a form component with a form that uses a business process flow.

- The form component control doesn't support embedded form component controls, such as adding a form component control to a form that is used by a form component control. 

- The form component control will only display the first tab of the form it uses if multiple tabs are included in that form.  

- Using the same form for different form component controls isn't supported.

- The form that you use with a form component must be included in your app. More information: [Add a component](add-edit-app-components.md#add-a-component).

- You may notice that the timeline wall may not update when a column that is used to set the timeline wall has changed in the form component. When the page is refreshed the timeline wall will update as expected.

- On mobile, the timeline control does not currently appear in the form component control.

- For subgrids, the **See all records** and **See associated records** command buttons will not be available if they are rendered inside a form component.

- Form component controls are not supported in bulk edit dialogs. They will not appear in the form in the bulk edit dialog by default and any changes made to related table records with them will not be saved.

### See also

[Use custom controls for model-driven app data visualizations](use-custom-controls-data-visualizations.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Updates following call with SM

powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/form-component-control.md, after:

---
title: "Edit table records directly from another table’s main form | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn how to design a main form that can be used to edit a related table record.
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 08/15/2021
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "how-to"
applies_to: 
  - "PowerApps"
author: "Mattp123"
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.author: "mspilde"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - "PowerApps"
  - D365CE
---
# Edit related table records directly from another table’s main form

There are multiple ways that you can work with **related table records** on a table form within a Power App. For example, you can include related tables in read-only mode with a [quick view form](create-edit-quick-view-forms.md) and create or edit a record using a [main form in a dialog.](../../developer/model-driven-apps/customize-entity-forms.md#open-main-form-in-a-dialog-using-client-api)

Another way you can work with related table records is by adding a form component control to another table's main form. The **form component control** lets users edit information of a related table record directly from another table’s form.

For example, here's the form component on a separate tab on the main account form, which lets the user edit a contact record without leaving the account form.

:::image type="content" source="media/form-component-tab.png" alt-text="Form component control added to a separate tab.":::

For example, here's the form component on an **existing tab** on the main account form, which also lets the user edit a contact record without leaving the account form.  Notice that we remain on the summary tab.

:::image type="content" source="media/form-component-section.png" alt-text="Form component control added to an existing tab.":::

## Add the form component to a table main form

In this example, the **Contact** standard main form is configured for the form component control that’s added to the account main form.

1. Navigate to make.powerapps.com
1. Select **Dataverse** and then **Tables** in the left hand menu.  Alternatively, select a [solution](model-driven-app-glossary.md#solution) from the menu and then select a table, such as **Account**.
1. Select **Forms** from the components menu.
1. Select a form with a form type of **Main** from the forms available.  There will be others such as Card and QuickViewForm available.
1. Select **Switch to classic** and the classic form editor interface will be opened as a tab in your browser.
1. Select the **Insert** tab. Then, create a new tab and add a new section or add a new section to an existing tab.  
1. In the new section, add a lookup column, such as the **Primary Contact** lookup column.
1. Select the lookup column, and then on the **Home** tab, select **Change Properties**.
1. On the **Controls** tab, select **Add Control**, in the list of control types select **Form Component Control**, and then select **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/form-component-control.png" alt-text="Select the Form Component Control.":::
1. Select **Web**, **Tablet**, and **Phone** for the component.
1. Select **Edit** (pencil icon) and on the **Configure Property** dialog box select **Bind to a static value** and then add an XML entry similar to this where *TableName* is the table unique name and *FormID* is the form ID for the main form:`<QuickForms><QuickFormIds><QuickFormId entityname="TableName">FormID</QuickFormId></QuickFormIds></QuickForms>`
   - For example, to render the **Contact** main form on the account form, use: `<QuickForms><QuickFormIds><QuickFormId entityname="contact">1fed44d1-ae68-4a41-bd2b-f13acac4acfa</QuickFormId></QuickFormIds></QuickForms>`

    :::image type="content" source="media/form-component-control2.png" alt-text="Configure the form component control.":::
1. Select **OK**, and then select **OK** again.
1. **Save** and then **Publish** your form.

> [!TIP]
> To find the unique name for a table, select the table in Power Apps and then select **Settings**. The **Name** appears on the **Edit** table pane.
> The form ID can be found in the browser URL when you edit a form. The ID follows the **/edit/** portion of the URL.
>  :::image type="content" source="media/form-component-formid.png" alt-text="Form ID can be found in the browser URL when you open a form in the modern form designer.":::
>
> In the classic form designer, the form ID follows the **formId%3d** portion of the URL.

## Form component behavior

This section describes form component behavior when used in a model-driven app.

### Record selection

In order for the form component control to show a form, the lookup column it is bound to needs to have a value. Otherwise, the control will show the message **Source record not selected**. One way to set the value is to add to the form a lookup control that is bound to the same lookup column as the form component control. When you use the lookup control to change the lookup column value, the form component control will show a form with the data for the new lookup column value.

### Column validation

All columns, both in the main form and in the form component controls, must be valid for data to be sent to Microsoft Dataverse. This is true for both column validation errors, missing required columns, and so on.

`OnSave` handlers are run for the main form and its form component controls. Any handler can cancel the save for the main form and the form component controls by using [preventDefault](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/save-event-arguments/preventdefault.md). This means no save operation can call `preventDefault` for data to be sent to Dataverse. The order of when the `OnSave` handlers are called is not defined. More information: [Form OnSave Event (Client API reference) in model-driven apps](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/events/form-onsave.md)

### Record save

Once the validation stage is passed, data is sent to Dataverse for each record. Currently, each record is updated independently with different requests. The saves are not transactional, and the order of the saves isn't defined. An error saving one form component will not roll back changes to the main form or other form components. After each save is complete, data is refreshed for all the records on the form.

### Notifications

Notifications on the form component are aggregated into the notifications of the main form. For instance, if there are invalid columns in the form component and you try to save, the invalid column notification will appear at the top of the main form rather than in the form component.

### Error handling

If there are multiple errors during save, only one error will be shown to the user. If the user can make changes to fix the first error and saves the next error will be visible.  The user will need to continue saving until all errors have been resolved.

### Changing records with unsaved changes

If there are unsaved changes in a form for a form component and a user tries to change the lookup column the form component is bound to, the user will be alerted about this change.

### Client API

A [form context](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/clientapi-form-context.md) is available for the form component control. It can be accessed via the main form's form context by accessing the control via an API, such as [getControl](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/controls/getControl.md). Before you access data for the related table in the form component control, event handlers should wait for the [isLoaded API](../../developer/model-driven-apps/clientapi/reference/formContext-ui-quickForms/isLoaded.md) for the control to return true.

## Limitations

Note the following limitations when you add the form component control to a table form:

- The form component control only supports rendering main forms. Similarly, support for adding a form component control is only supported with main forms. Other form types, such as quick create, quick view, and card aren't supported.

- Forms with a business process flow aren’t currently supported in either the main table form or the related table form. If you have a form with a business process flow, you may encounter unexpected behavior.  We recommend that you do not use a form component with a form that uses a business process flow.

- The form component control doesn't support embedded form component controls, such as adding a form component control to a form that is used by a form component control. 

- The form component control will only display the first tab of the form it uses if multiple tabs are included in that form.  

- Using the same form for different form component controls isn't supported.

- The form that you use with a form component must be included in your app. More information: [Add a component](add-edit-app-components.md#add-a-component).

- You may notice that the timeline wall may not update when a column that is used to set the timeline wall has changed in the form component. When the page is refreshed the timeline wall will update as expected.

- On mobile, the timeline control does not currently appear in the form component control.

- For subgrids, the **See all records** and **See associated records** command buttons will not be available if they are rendered inside a form component.

- Form component controls are not supported in bulk edit dialogs. They will not appear in the form in the bulk edit dialog by default and any changes made to related table records with them will not be saved.

### See also

[Use custom controls for model-driven app data visualizations](use-custom-controls-data-visualizations.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
