powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/team-entity-lookup.md, before:

---
title: "Add the team table as a lookup option in your app | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Learn how to add the team table as a lookup option in your app"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 07/24/2019
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "how-to"
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
  - "powerapps"
author: "Mattp123"
ms.assetid: 
caps.latest.revision: 25
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.author: "matp"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Add a table as a lookup option in your app

[!INCLUDE [cc-data-platform-banner](../../includes/cc-data-platform-banner.md)]

With Unified Interface apps, for a table to be available in a lookup it must be added to the app. For example, contact rows have the ability to be assigned to a user or a team.  

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
> ![Entity lookup with both users and teams available.](media/entity-lookup-teams.png "Entity lookup with both users and teams available")

However, if the user table is included in the app but the team table is not, only user rows will appear in a lookup. 

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
> ![Entity lookup with users only.](media/entity-lookup-user-only.png "Entity lookup with users only")

## Add the team table to an app

1. Open the app in the App Designer. 
2. Select the **Components** tab, select **Entities**, and then select **Team**.    

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
    > ![Add the team table to the app.](media/add-team-entity-app.png "Add the team table to the app")

3. Select **Save**, and then select **Publish** to make your change available to app users.   



[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Model Driven App Updates Milestone 1

powerapps-docs/maker/model-driven-apps/team-entity-lookup.md, after:

---
title: "Add the team table as a lookup option in your app | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Learn how to add the team table as a lookup option in your app"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: 07/24/2019
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "how-to"
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
  - "powerapps"
author: "Mattp123"
ms.assetid: 
caps.latest.revision: 25
ms.subservice: mda-maker
ms.author: "matp"
manager: "kvivek"
search.audienceType: 
  - maker
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Add a table as a lookup option in your app

[!INCLUDE [cc-data-platform-banner](../../includes/cc-data-platform-banner.md)]

## Lookup functionality
With model-driven apps, for a table to be available in a lookup it must be added to the app. 

For example, contact rows have the ability to be assigned to a user or a team.  Both of these tables have a relationship with the contacts table.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
> ![Entity lookup with both users and teams available.](media/entity-lookup-teams.png "Entity lookup with both users and teams available")

However, if the **user** table is included in the app but the **team** table is not, only user rows will appear in a lookup.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"] 
> ![Entity lookup with users only.](media/entity-lookup-user-only.png "Entity lookup with users only")

This can be easily resolved by adding the table to the app using the [App Designer](model-driven-app-glossary.md#app-designer).

## Add a related table to an app to enable the lookup

1. Navigate to the Power Apps portal found at [make.powerapps.com](https://make.powerapps.com/?utm_source=padocs&utm_medium=linkinadoc&utm_campaign=referralsfromdoc)
1. Select **Solutions**
1. Select the required solution
1. Select the model-driven app.  This will open the app in the **App Designer**.
1. Select the **Components** tab, select **Entities** (these are in effect tables), and then select **Team**.

    > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
    > ![Add the team table to the app.](media/add-team-entity-app.png "Add the team table to the app")

1. Select **Save**, and then select **Publish** to make the change available to app users within the organization.

## Next Steps
[Share a model driven app](share-model-driven-app.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
