The [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)] for tablets and phones, and Project Finder for [!include[](../includes/pn-project-finder-dyn-365.md)] (the "App") enables users to access their [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)] instance from their tablet and phone device. In order to provide this service, the App processes and stores information, such as user's credentials and the data the user processes in [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)]. The App is provided for use only by end users of Microsoft customers who are authorized users of [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)]. The App processes user's information on behalf of the applicable Microsoft customer, and Microsoft may disclose information processed by the App at the direction of the organization that provides users access to [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)]. Microsoft does not use information users process via the App for any other purpose.  

If users use the App to connect to [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM (online) or [!include[](../includes/pn-crm-online.md)], by installing the App, users consent to transmission of their organization's assigned ID and assigned end user ID, and device ID to Microsoft for purposes of enabling connections across multiple devices, or improving [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM (online), [!include[](../includes/pn-crm-online.md)] or the App.  

**Location data.** If users request and enable location-based services or features in the App, the App may collect and use precise data about their location. Precise location data can be Global Position System (GPS) data, as well as data identifying nearby cell towers and Wi-Fi hotspots. The App may send location data to [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)]. The App may send the location data to [!include[](../includes/pn-bing-maps.md)] and other third party mapping services, such as Google Maps and [!include[](../includes/tn-apple.md)] Maps, a user designated in the user's phone to process the user's location data within the App. Users may disable location-based services or features or disable the App's access to user's location by turning off the location service or turning off the App's access to the location service. Users' use of [!include[](../includes/pn-bing-maps.md)] is governed by the [!include[](../includes/pn-bing-maps.md)] End User Terms of Use available at [https://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9710837](https://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9710837) and the [!include[](../includes/pn-bing-maps.md)] Privacy Statement available at [https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=248686](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=248686). Users' use of third party mapping services, and any information users provide to them, is governed by their service specific end user terms and privacy statements. Users should carefully review these other end user terms and privacy statements.

The App may include links to other Microsoft services and third party services whose privacy and security practices may differ from those of [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)].  IF USERS SUBMIT DATA TO OTHER MICROSOFT SERVICES OR THIRD PARTY SERVICES, SUCH DATA IS GOVERNED BY THEIR RESPECTIVE PRIVACY STATEMENTS. For the avoidance of doubt, data shared outside of [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)] is not covered by users' [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)]s CRM or [!include[](../includes/pn-dynamics-crm.md)] agreement(s) or the applicable [!include[](../includes/pn-microsoft-dynamics.md)] Trust Center. Microsoft encourages users to review these other privacy statements.

Licensed Dynamics 365 Online users with specific Security Roles (CEO – Business Manager, Sales Manager, Salesperson, System Administrator, System Customizer, and Vice President of Sales) are automatically authorized to access the service by using Dynamics 365 for tablets, as well as other clients.  
  
An administrator has full control (at the user security role or entity level) over the ability to access and the level of authorized access associated with the tablet client. Users can then access Dynamics 365 (online) by using Dynamics 365 for tablets, and Customer Data will be cached on the device running the specific client.  
  
Based on the specific settings at the user security and entity levels, the types of Customer Data that can be exported from Dynamics 365 (online) and cached on an end user’s device include record data, record metadata, entity data, entity metadata, and business logic.