By enabling the portal capabilities for [!INCLUDE[pn_microsoftcrm](pn-microsoftcrm.md)], [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_crm](pn-dynamics-crm.md)] data, such as customer name, product name, case number, or any custom entity data, can be exposed through an external-facing [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_crm](pn-dynamics-crm.md)] portal. Any data exposed through the portal is stored in memory in Microsoft [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_shortest](pn-azure-shortest.md)] Web Apps for caching and also as files on the local hard drive to enable portal search functionality.

A tenant administrator enables [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_crm](pn-dynamics-crm.md)] portals by configuring it through the [!INCLUDE[pn_dyn_365_admin_center](../includes/pn-dyn-365-admin-center.md)], which also installs a package (with solutions and data) in the selected [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_crm](pn-dynamics-crm.md)] instance. A tenant administrator or a [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_crm](pn-dynamics-crm.md)] user set up as a Portal Administrator can then specify the data that will be exposed through the portal. To subsequently disable the portal capabilities, a tenant administrator can cancel the Portal Add-on subscription with [!INCLUDE[pn_Office_365](pn-office-365.md)].

Important [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_shortest](pn-azure-shortest.md)] components and services that are involved with the portal capabilities are:
- [Azure Web Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/web/): [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_shortest](pn-azure-shortest.md)] Web Apps are used to host the portal in [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_shortest](pn-azure-shortest.md)].
- [Azure Traffic Manager](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/traffic-manager/): [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_shortest](pn-azure-shortest.md)] Traffic Manager is used to ensure the high availability of the service by routing the user to the Web Apps that are up and running. 
- [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/service-bus/): [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_service_bus](pn-azure-service-bus.md)] (Topics/Subscriptions) is used for cache invalidation of the portals. [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_service_bus](pn-azure-service-bus.md)] temporarily stores the messages, which are triggered when any portal-related record is changed in [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_crm](pn-dynamics-crm.md)], and are passed along to Web Apps to do the cache invalidation. 
- [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/key-vault/): All services store configuration data in [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_key_vault](pn_azure_key_vault.md)].
- [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/): Data related to the organization, tenant, and portal is stored in [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_shortest](pn-azure-shortest.md)] Storage.
- [Microsoft Entra ID](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/active-directory/): All the web services use [!INCLUDE[pn_azure_active_directory](pn-azure-active-directory.md)] to authenticate.