powerapps-docs/developer/model-driven-apps/web-resources.md, before:

---
title: "Web Resources (model-driven apps) | Microsoft Docs" # Intent and product brand in a unique string of 43-59 chars including spaces
description: "Web resources are virtual files that are stored in the Microsoft Dataverse database and that you can retrieve by using a unique URL address." # 115-145 characters including spaces. This abstract displays in the search result.
ms.date: 04/15/2021
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.custom: "intro-internal"
ms.topic: "article"
author: "KumarVivek" # GitHub ID
ms.subservice: mda-developer
ms.author: "kvivek" # MSFT alias of Microsoft employees only
manager: "shilpas" # MSFT alias of manager or PM counterpart
search.audienceType: 
  - developer
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Web resources in model-driven apps

Web resources are *virtual files* that are stored in the Microsoft Dataverse database and that you can retrieve by using a unique URL address.  

> [!NOTE]
> IFRAMEing content that is behind an authentication boundary is not supported through web resources or Power Apps component framework. Some embedded IFRAMEs might work in a browser client if the user directly logs into the external service, but this is not supported in mobile or tablet applications.
The specific scenario of embedding a form within an IFRAME, embedded in another form, is not supported. We recommend the use of [form as a component](../../maker/model-driven-apps/form-component-control.md) for such scenarios.<p/>Use of [Power Apps component framework](../component-framework/overview.md) is encouraged to build reusable and more tighter external IFRAME based integrations. More information: [IFRAME component](../component-framework/sample-controls/iframe-control.md)


<a name="BKMK_CapabilitiesOfWebResources"></a>   

## Capabilities of web resources  

Web resources represent files that can be used to extend the Dataverse web application such as html files, JavaScript, and CSS, and several image formats. You can use web resources in form customizations, the `SiteMap`, or the application ribbon because they can be referenced by using URL syntax.  
  
The URL syntax for web resources allows for relative path references. With your development tools, you can create a group of interdependent files on a development server by using file types compatible with web resources. Then, if you use a consistent naming convention and relative path references, the website will function after you upload all the files into Dataverse.
  
Because web resources are stored in Dataverse and are solution components, they can be easily exported and installed to other Dataverse orgs. Web resources are also available to users of Dataverse for Microsoft Office Outlook with Offline Access when offline because they are synchronized with the user's data.  
  
 You can use the form editor to add and configure form-enabled web resources into your forms.  
  
 Because web resources are stored as records in the database, they can be managed programmatically by using the standard techniques to create, retrieve, and update records. Text-based web resources (JScript, CSS, XML, XSL, RESX, and HTML) can be edited and saved in the application.  

[!INCLUDE[cc-terminology](../data-platform/includes/cc-terminology.md)]

<a name="BKMK_LimitationsOfWebResources"></a>   

### Limitations of web resources  

There is no type of web resource that supports the capabilities of an ASP.NET(.aspx) page to execute code on the server. Web resources are limited to static files or files that are processed in the browser. A web resource can contain code that is processed in the browser to execute web service calls to interact with Dataverse data.
  
Web resources are only available by using the Dataverse web application security context. Only licensed Dataverse users who have the necessary privileges can access them.  
  
#### Size limitations  

The maximum size of files that can be uploaded is determined by the Organization.MaxUploadFileSize property. This property is set in the Email tab of the System Settings in the Dynamics 365 application. This setting limits the size of files that can be attached to email messages, notes, and web resources. The default setting is 5 MB.
  
<a name="BKMK_WebResourceTypes"></a>  
 
## Web resource types  
 
You can use ten file formats to create web resources. The following table lists each file format, the allowed file extensions, and the type value that you use for each.  
  
|File|File extensions|Type|  
|----------|---------------------|----------|  
|Webpage (HTML)|.htm, .html|1|  
|Style Sheet (CSS)|.css|2|  
|Script (JScript)|.js|3|  
|Data (XML)|.xml|4|  
|Image (PNG)|.png|5|  
|Image (JPG)|.jpg|6|  
|Image (GIF)|.gif|7|  
|Silverlight (XAP)|.xap|8|  
|StyleSheet (XSL)|.xsl, .xslt|9|  
|Image (ICO)|.ico|10|  
|Vector format (SVG)|.svg|11|  
|String (RESX)|.resx|12|  
  
<a name="BKMK_ReferencingWebResources"></a>   
## Reference web resources  
 There are several methods that you can use to reference web resources.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  -   When possible, use the `$webresource` directive. Only references that use the `$webresource` directive in the site map or ribbon commands will establish dependencies. Dependencies are not created when web resources reference each other.  
>       - To display a Silverlight web resource outside a form or chart, create an HTML web resource to be the host page for the Silverlight web resource. Then use the $webresource: directive to open the HTML web resource.
  
<a name="BKMK_WebResourceDirective"></a>   
### $webresource directive  
 You should always use the `$webresource` directive when referencing a web resource from a ribbon control or from a `SiteMap` sub area. Use the `$webresource` directive anywhere the XML allows a URL value. The following sample shows how to use it.  
  
```xml  
$webresource:<name of Web Resource>  
```  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  When using the `$webresource` directive, Dataverse will create or update solution dependencies.  
  
### Xrm.Navigation.openWebResource  
 The Xrm.Navigation.[openWebResource](clientapi/reference/Xrm-Navigation/openWebResource.md) function will open an HTML web resource in a new window with parameters to pass the name of the web resource, any query string data to be passed in the data parameter, and information about height and width of the window.  
  
 The URL generated includes the unique GUID token so that the cached web resource will be loaded.  
  
<a name="BKMK_RelativeUrl"></a>   
### Relative URL  
 When referencing a web resource from areas that do not support using the `$webresource:` directive, a relative URL can be used. To enable this, we recommend that you use a consistent naming convention for the web resources that reflect a virtual file structure. The solution publisher’s customization prefix will always be included as a prefix to the name of the web resource. This can represent a virtual ”root” folder for all web resources added by that publisher. You can then use the forward slash character (/) to simulate a folder structure that will be honored by the web server.  
  
 From another web resource, you should always use relative URLs to reference each other. For example, for the web page web resource `new_/content/contentpage.htm` to reference the CSS web resource `new_/Styles/styles.css`, create the link as follows:  
  
```html  
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/styles.css" />  
```  
  
 For the web page web resource `new_/content/contentpage.htm` to open the webpage web resource `isv_/foldername/dialogpage.htm`, create the link as follows:  
  
```html  
<a href="../../isv_/foldername/dialogpage.htm">Dialog Page</a>  
```  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Do not use a relative URL using the WebResources folder as the root path for the URL. For example, do not use this: `/WebResources/<name of web resource>`. When a user belongs to more than one organization on a server, this path will always refer to the users default organization. If the user is not using their default organization and the expected web resource is not included in the user’s default organization, a “File Not Found” error occurs even though the web resource does occur in the organization the user is currently working in.  
  
<a name="BKMK_FullUrl"></a>   
### Full URL  
 The following sample shows the style of URL you can use to view web resources.  
  
```  
<Dataverse Environment URL>/WebResources/<name of web resource>  
```  
  
 The application will process this URL and return the file that contains the latest version of the web resource. This URL will look like this:  
  
```  
<Dataverse Environment URL>/%7B<version value>%7D/WebResources/<name of web resource>  
```  
  
 The version value is updated when you publish customizations and ensures that the browser uses the latest cached version of the web resource. Because of this, use a relative path to a web resource, the Xrm.Navigation.[openWebResource](clientapi/reference/Xrm-Navigation/openWebResource.md) function, or the [$webresource Directive](web-resources.md#BKMK_WebResourceDirective) (when possible) because the version value will automatically be included. For large web resources there can be significant performance implications if you don’t use the cached version of the file.  
  
 The following sample shows a URL for Dataverse, where `MyOrganization` is the name of your Dataverse Environment, and `new_/test/test.htm` is the name of the web resource:  
  
```  
https://MyOrganization.crm.dynamics.com/WebResources/new_/test/test.htm  
```  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Including the ‘/’ character and a file name extension in the name of the web resource is an optional best practice.  
 When you write code to reference a web resource that works for Dataverse, you should use the [getClientUrl](clientapi/reference/Xrm-Utility/getGlobalContext/getClientUrl.md) function.

<a name="BKMK_rendering_differences"></a>
## Layout differences between the legacy web client and Unified Interface

A web resource control configured to use a certain number of rows will have different heights in a Unified Client application compared to a web client application. This is because there is a difference in the height of a row between Unified Interface and web client. If a form is needed in both the web client and Unified Interface, you can use different forms in the Unified Interface app and the web client app with the control configured to use the appropriate number of rows in each form.

## Community tools

**WebResources Manager** is a tool that XrmToolbox community developed for Dataverse. Please see the [Developer tools](developer-tools.md) topic for community developed tools.

> [!NOTE]
> The community tools are not a product of Dataverse and does not extend support to the community tools. 
> If you have questions pertaining to the tool, please contact the publisher. More Information: [XrmToolBox](https://www.xrmtoolbox.com). 
  
### See also  

 [Create Accessible web resources](create-accessible-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Web Page (HTML) web resources](webpage-html-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Script (JScript) web resources](script-jscript-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Image web resources](image-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Stylesheet (XSL) web resources](stylesheet-xsl-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Data (XML) web resources](data-xml-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Style Sheet (CSS) web resources](css-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Web resource table reference](../data-platform/reference/entities/webresource.md)<br />
 [Sample: Passing multiple values to a web resource through the data parameter](sample-pass-multiple-values-web-resource-through-data-parameter.md)<br />
 [Sample: Importing files as web resources](sample-import-files-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Streamline web resource development using Fiddler AutoResponder](streamline-javascript-development-fiddler-autoresponder.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Added custom pages as replacement for web resource
Updated document to add custom pages as a possible option to use instead of web resources

powerapps-docs/developer/model-driven-apps/web-resources.md, after:

---
title: "Web Resources (model-driven apps) | Microsoft Docs" # Intent and product brand in a unique string of 43-59 chars including spaces
description: "Web resources are virtual files that are stored in the Microsoft Dataverse database and that you can retrieve by using a unique URL address." # 115-145 characters including spaces. This abstract displays in the search result.
ms.date: 04/15/2021
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: powerapps
ms.custom: "intro-internal"
ms.topic: "article"
author: "KumarVivek" # GitHub ID
ms.subservice: mda-developer
ms.author: "kvivek" # MSFT alias of Microsoft employees only
manager: "shilpas" # MSFT alias of manager or PM counterpart
search.audienceType: 
  - developer
search.app: 
  - PowerApps
  - D365CE
---
# Web resources in model-driven apps

Web resources are *virtual files* that are stored in the Microsoft Dataverse database and that you can retrieve by using a unique URL address.  

> [!NOTE]
> IFRAMEing content that is behind an authentication boundary is not supported through web resources or Power Apps component framework. Some embedded IFRAMEs might work in a browser client if the user directly logs into the external service, but this is not supported in mobile or tablet applications.
The specific scenario of embedding a form within an IFRAME, embedded in another form, is not supported. We recommend the use of [form as a component](../../maker/model-driven-apps/form-component-control.md) for such scenarios.<p/>In general, use of [Power Apps component framework](../component-framework/overview.md) and [custom pages](../../maker/model-driven-apps/model-app-page-overview.md) is encouraged to build configurable, reusable and more tighter external ntegrations. More information: [IFRAME component](../component-framework/sample-controls/iframe-control.md)


<a name="BKMK_CapabilitiesOfWebResources"></a>   

## Capabilities of web resources  

Web resources represent files that can be used to extend the Dataverse web application such as html files, JavaScript, and CSS, and several image formats. You can use web resources in form customizations, the `SiteMap`, or the application ribbon because they can be referenced by using URL syntax.  
  
The URL syntax for web resources allows for relative path references. With your development tools, you can create a group of interdependent files on a development server by using file types compatible with web resources. Then, if you use a consistent naming convention and relative path references, the website will function after you upload all the files into Dataverse.
  
Because web resources are stored in Dataverse and are solution components, they can be easily exported and installed to other Dataverse orgs. Web resources are also available to users of Dataverse for Microsoft Office Outlook with Offline Access when offline because they are synchronized with the user's data.  
  
 You can use the form editor to add and configure form-enabled web resources into your forms.  
  
 Because web resources are stored as records in the database, they can be managed programmatically by using the standard techniques to create, retrieve, and update records. Text-based web resources (JScript, CSS, XML, XSL, RESX, and HTML) can be edited and saved in the application.  

[!INCLUDE[cc-terminology](../data-platform/includes/cc-terminology.md)]

<a name="BKMK_LimitationsOfWebResources"></a>   

### Limitations of web resources  

There is no type of web resource that supports the capabilities of an ASP.NET(.aspx) page to execute code on the server. Web resources are limited to static files or files that are processed in the browser. A web resource can contain code that is processed in the browser to execute web service calls to interact with Dataverse data.
  
Web resources are only available by using the Dataverse web application security context. Only licensed Dataverse users who have the necessary privileges can access them.  
  
#### Size limitations  

The maximum size of files that can be uploaded is determined by the Organization.MaxUploadFileSize property. This property is set in the Email tab of the System Settings in the Dynamics 365 application. This setting limits the size of files that can be attached to email messages, notes, and web resources. The default setting is 5 MB.
  
<a name="BKMK_WebResourceTypes"></a>  
 
## Web resource types  
 
You can use ten file formats to create web resources. The following table lists each file format, the allowed file extensions, and the type value that you use for each.  
  
|File|File extensions|Type|  
|----------|---------------------|----------|  
|Webpage (HTML)|.htm, .html|1|  
|Style Sheet (CSS)|.css|2|  
|Script (JScript)|.js|3|  
|Data (XML)|.xml|4|  
|Image (PNG)|.png|5|  
|Image (JPG)|.jpg|6|  
|Image (GIF)|.gif|7|  
|Silverlight (XAP)|.xap|8|  
|StyleSheet (XSL)|.xsl, .xslt|9|  
|Image (ICO)|.ico|10|  
|Vector format (SVG)|.svg|11|  
|String (RESX)|.resx|12|  
  
<a name="BKMK_ReferencingWebResources"></a>   
## Reference web resources  
 There are several methods that you can use to reference web resources.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  -   When possible, use the `$webresource` directive. Only references that use the `$webresource` directive in the site map or ribbon commands will establish dependencies. Dependencies are not created when web resources reference each other.  
>       - To display a Silverlight web resource outside a form or chart, create an HTML web resource to be the host page for the Silverlight web resource. Then use the $webresource: directive to open the HTML web resource.
  
<a name="BKMK_WebResourceDirective"></a>   
### $webresource directive  
 You should always use the `$webresource` directive when referencing a web resource from a ribbon control or from a `SiteMap` sub area. Use the `$webresource` directive anywhere the XML allows a URL value. The following sample shows how to use it.  
  
```xml  
$webresource:<name of Web Resource>  
```  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  When using the `$webresource` directive, Dataverse will create or update solution dependencies.  
  
### Xrm.Navigation.openWebResource  
 The Xrm.Navigation.[openWebResource](clientapi/reference/Xrm-Navigation/openWebResource.md) function will open an HTML web resource in a new window with parameters to pass the name of the web resource, any query string data to be passed in the data parameter, and information about height and width of the window.  
  
 The URL generated includes the unique GUID token so that the cached web resource will be loaded.  
  
<a name="BKMK_RelativeUrl"></a>   
### Relative URL  
 When referencing a web resource from areas that do not support using the `$webresource:` directive, a relative URL can be used. To enable this, we recommend that you use a consistent naming convention for the web resources that reflect a virtual file structure. The solution publisher’s customization prefix will always be included as a prefix to the name of the web resource. This can represent a virtual ”root” folder for all web resources added by that publisher. You can then use the forward slash character (/) to simulate a folder structure that will be honored by the web server.  
  
 From another web resource, you should always use relative URLs to reference each other. For example, for the web page web resource `new_/content/contentpage.htm` to reference the CSS web resource `new_/Styles/styles.css`, create the link as follows:  
  
```html  
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/styles.css" />  
```  
  
 For the web page web resource `new_/content/contentpage.htm` to open the webpage web resource `isv_/foldername/dialogpage.htm`, create the link as follows:  
  
```html  
<a href="../../isv_/foldername/dialogpage.htm">Dialog Page</a>  
```  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Do not use a relative URL using the WebResources folder as the root path for the URL. For example, do not use this: `/WebResources/<name of web resource>`. When a user belongs to more than one organization on a server, this path will always refer to the users default organization. If the user is not using their default organization and the expected web resource is not included in the user’s default organization, a “File Not Found” error occurs even though the web resource does occur in the organization the user is currently working in.  
  
<a name="BKMK_FullUrl"></a>   
### Full URL  
 The following sample shows the style of URL you can use to view web resources.  
  
```  
<Dataverse Environment URL>/WebResources/<name of web resource>  
```  
  
 The application will process this URL and return the file that contains the latest version of the web resource. This URL will look like this:  
  
```  
<Dataverse Environment URL>/%7B<version value>%7D/WebResources/<name of web resource>  
```  
  
 The version value is updated when you publish customizations and ensures that the browser uses the latest cached version of the web resource. Because of this, use a relative path to a web resource, the Xrm.Navigation.[openWebResource](clientapi/reference/Xrm-Navigation/openWebResource.md) function, or the [$webresource Directive](web-resources.md#BKMK_WebResourceDirective) (when possible) because the version value will automatically be included. For large web resources there can be significant performance implications if you don’t use the cached version of the file.  
  
 The following sample shows a URL for Dataverse, where `MyOrganization` is the name of your Dataverse Environment, and `new_/test/test.htm` is the name of the web resource:  
  
```  
https://MyOrganization.crm.dynamics.com/WebResources/new_/test/test.htm  
```  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Including the ‘/’ character and a file name extension in the name of the web resource is an optional best practice.  
 When you write code to reference a web resource that works for Dataverse, you should use the [getClientUrl](clientapi/reference/Xrm-Utility/getGlobalContext/getClientUrl.md) function.

<a name="BKMK_rendering_differences"></a>
## Layout differences between the legacy web client and Unified Interface

A web resource control configured to use a certain number of rows will have different heights in a Unified Client application compared to a web client application. This is because there is a difference in the height of a row between Unified Interface and web client. If a form is needed in both the web client and Unified Interface, you can use different forms in the Unified Interface app and the web client app with the control configured to use the appropriate number of rows in each form.

## Community tools

**WebResources Manager** is a tool that XrmToolbox community developed for Dataverse. Please see the [Developer tools](developer-tools.md) topic for community developed tools.

> [!NOTE]
> The community tools are not a product of Dataverse and does not extend support to the community tools. 
> If you have questions pertaining to the tool, please contact the publisher. More Information: [XrmToolBox](https://www.xrmtoolbox.com). 
  
### See also  

 [Create Accessible web resources](create-accessible-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Web Page (HTML) web resources](webpage-html-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Script (JScript) web resources](script-jscript-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Image web resources](image-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Stylesheet (XSL) web resources](stylesheet-xsl-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Data (XML) web resources](data-xml-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Style Sheet (CSS) web resources](css-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Web resource table reference](../data-platform/reference/entities/webresource.md)<br />
 [Sample: Passing multiple values to a web resource through the data parameter](sample-pass-multiple-values-web-resource-through-data-parameter.md)<br />
 [Sample: Importing files as web resources](sample-import-files-web-resources.md)<br />
 [Streamline web resource development using Fiddler AutoResponder](streamline-javascript-development-fiddler-autoresponder.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
