---
title: FAQ about Copilot visualizations on a view (preview)
description: This FAQ provides information about the AI technology used in visualizing data in a view with key considerations and details about how AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 05/28/2025
author: sriharibs-msft
ms.author: srihas
reviewer: shwetamurkute
ms.reviewer: smurkute
ms.topic: faq
ms.subservice: common
ms.custom: transparency-note
 - responsible-ai-faqs
ms.collection: 
    - bap-ai-copilot
---

# FAQ about Copilot visualizations on a view (preview)

These frequently asked questions (FAQ) describe the AI impact of in visualizing data in a view.

## What are Copilot visualizations on a view?
Copilot-generated visualization provides users with an option to view AI-generated chart for the rows in a view in a model-driven app. Users can select the Visualize button on the view page to see an AI-generated chart that aggregates the records in the view to show trends and distributions. 

## What can Copilot visualizations do? 
Copilot-generated visualizations are generated based on the columns in the view. Users can change the chart or select areas of the chart to drill into the visualization generated by Copilot to do data analysis.   

## What is the intended use of Copilot visualizations? 
Copilot-generated visualizations are intended for users to visualize the rows of data in a view as a chart. Users can apply filters or change chart type to personalize the chart, and interact with the chart and the tabular data side by side to explore the data in the app.  

## How were Copilot visualizations evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?  
We continuously evaluated and tested Copilot visualization with different datasets and scenarios to measure quality and performance. We evaluated the accuracy and relevance of the chart generated for a view based on the type of data visualized. The type of charts generated were also evaluated for satisfying Microsoft’s responsible AI principles. 

## What are the limitations of Copilot visualizations? How can users minimize the impact of the limitations when using the system? 
Copilot visualizations are not shown to users by default. Users need to select the Visualize option on the page to see AI-generated chart. Copilot visualizations present users with a suggested chart for the data that users can review and edit. 
In addition, this capability is only available for environments with English as the base language. 

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of Copilot charts? 
Users need to select the Visualize option on the page to see AI-generated chart. Copilot visualizations present users with a suggested chart for the data that users can review and edit.

## How do I provide feedback on Copilot charts? 

To provide feedback about this feature, users can select the thumbs up or thumbs down button and optionally, type in comments to describe their feedback and submit their response. 

## Related information

[Visualize data in a view with Copilot](../../user/visualize-data-in-copilot.md)   
