---
title: FAQs about field suggestion by Copilot
description: These FAQs provide information about the AI technology used to get field suggestion by Copilot, along with key considerations and details about how AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 4/30/2024
ms.custom: 
  - responsible-ai-faqs
ms.topic: article
author: norliu
ms.author: norliu
ms.reviewer: mkaur
ms.collection: 
    - bap-ai-copilot 
---

# FAQs about field suggestion by Copilot

These frequently asked questions (FAQs) describe the AI impact of drafting well-written input text with Copilot in Power Apps.

##  What is field suggestion by Copilot?

Today, in Power Apps canvas designer, when a maker connects a gallery or form to a data table, Power Apps by default picks some key columns generated by the system that are usually not quite meaningful for the app users. E.g. ID, created on, modified on. Additionally, makers have to manually pick the fields one by one. If the data table is big, the process can be quite heavy and laborious. By using field suggestion, Copilot is going to recommend meaningful columns to the gallery or form when the maker binds it to data by using the table’s metadata. So, it can save makers’ time doing field configuration and eventually become faster in app building

## What are the system’s capabilities? 

It takes the user's input and uses advanced language models to generate content suggestions, correct grammar errors, and eloquently refine the user's ideas. The user can also change the tone and length of the output to fit their scenario.

## What is the system’s intended use? 

As an AI assistant to users, it provides content suggestions and refined text based on the user's input.

## How was Draft with Copilot evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance? 

We evaluate the feature both qualitatively and quantitatively. To assess the quality of the feature, we're conducting studies with users to gather feedback on their experiences, thoughts about the feature's quality, and suggestions for improvement. We're also monitoring telemetry data to track the number of users who tried the feature, the success rate of the feature, and the ratio of positive feedback to negative feedback.

Before releasing the **Draft with Copilot** feature in preview, we conducted extensive testing to ensure its functionality. If you encounter any issues with the content generated, provide feedback. Your feedback is used to enhance Microsoft's products and services. Your organization's IT admins have access to your feedback data for management purposes. For more information, read the [Privacy Statement](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2182930%22%20\t%20%22_blank).

## What are the limitations of Draft with Copilot? How can users minimize the impact of the Draft with Copilot limitations when using the system? 

- To use this capability, you must be a premium user. 
- Preview features aren’t meant for production use and may have restricted functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback. 
- For more information, go to [preview terms](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2189520). 
- This capability is powered by [Azure OpenAI Service](/azure/cognitive-services/openai/overview). 
- This capability is in process of rolling out, and may not be available in your region yet. 
- This capability may be subject to usage limits or capacity throttling. 
- Your environment must be in the United States region or the [**Move data across regions**](/power-platform/admin/geographical-availability-copilot) checkbox must be selected in Power Platform admin center.
- This feature doesn’t support non-English language input. 

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system? 

If you get this error, **There was a problem using this description. Try again.**, this might be due to capacity limits. We recommend that you give the system some time before trying again. It may also be that you have not given the system enough information to properly generate output. Add more details to try again.

 
[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
